Jeff Wicks, News24 (iStock) Multimedia    ·   User Galleries   ·   News in Pictures
	        Send us your pictures   ·  Send us your stories Durban - As news of the discovery of the grave of a fallen Canadian soldier spreads across the country, another burial site may have been located in the province. KwaZulu-Natal engineer Vernon Malyon told News24 that while constructing a road between Tongaat and Wartburg, an elderly local man had pointed out the last resting place of three “white soldiers”. “I am a resident engineer on the P712, halfway between Tongaat and Wartburg where we are upgrading the existing gravel road to blacktop.” “Graves have been pointed out to me by a local who is adamant that they are graves of white soldiers, killed in 1906 in the Bambatha Rebellion. These graves are unmarked and I am sure that descendants of these men would want to know where these remains are,” he said. “This old man is adamant that the graves belong to white men who are buried under a tree right next to where we have been clearing the path for the road. He says his family has lived there for years and it is a story that has been passed down through his relatives,” Malyon added. ‘Canadian, laid to rest in 1901’ This week the discovery of a grave and headstone, which may be a fallen Canadian soldier in Zululand, made international headlines. News24 reported on Monday that a grave hidden away in the bush of the Enseleni Nature Reserve for almost a century remains shrouded in mystery. The headstone, once hidden by nature and fallen branches, reads "Cameron – Canadian, laid to rest in 1901". Local historian Dr JC van der Walt is on the case, trying to track down the descendants of Cameron. "It remains a mystery," he told News24. Then an offer of assistance came on Wednesday from Colonel John Mitchell, a Defence Adviser from the High Commission of Canada. Mitchell offered to be a point of contact for Van der Walt in accessing records and archives in Canada. If you have more information, contact the reporter on jeff.wicks@24.com   24.com encourages commentary submitted via MyNews24. Contributions of 200 words or more will be considered for publication.