Kaveel Singh, News24 (Picture: Walter Sisulu University) Multimedia    ·   User Galleries   ·   News in Pictures
	        Send us your pictures   ·  Send us your stories Durban - The Walter Sisulu University,
Buffalo City Campus will resume normal operations after a meeting between
management and students, the university has said. In a statement WSU spokesperson Thando
Cezula on Wednesday said a meeting of the campus management committee, attended
by the interim vice-chancellor and principal and relevant members of the
institutional management committee, was held with the SRC "in yet another
attempt to resolve the outstanding matters". Cezula said the SRC would report back to
their constituency on the outcomes of the meeting on Wednesday. "The meeting of management and SRC
held yesterday has resolved that all members of staff for Buffalo City Campus
should report back and resume with their duties on Wednesday, November 4. "An announcement regarding the actual
commencing of lectures will however be made by the office of the Buffalo City
Campus rector after the SRC report-back meeting. “The office of the registrar will also be
communicating, no later than Thursday, November 5, the re-arrangements the
institution will make with regard to the university timetable for the final
year examinations." Cezula said the situation at the Buffalo
City Campus had not normalised "despite the resolution of various
institutional issues" that was communicated in WSU's memorandum. "The Buffalo City Campus management
committee had continued engagements with the SRC to find solutions to the
outstanding campus-specific issues." A number of universities throughout the
country have reached interim solutions to mass student protests. Students have demanded free education after
President Jacob Zuma declared there would be no fees increase for 2016.
Thousands of higher education students took to the streets in recent weeks
voicing their disdain for the price tag attached to studies. 24.com encourages commentary submitted via MyNews24. Contributions of 200 words or more will be considered for publication.  