Kaveel Singh, News24Amy Miller (Kaveel Singh, News24) Multimedia &nbsp; &nbsp; User Galleries &nbsp; &nbsp; News in Pictures Send us your pictures &nbsp; &nbsp; Send us your stories Durban - Young Amy Miller, the inspirational 5-year-old who was diagnosed with a rare heart condition, died on Tuesday while waiting for a heart transplant.But, while they are mourning, they had &ldquo;an amazing three days with her before her passing&rdquo;, the Umhlanga family said on Wednesday. &nbsp;Amy was admitted to hospital on Sunday for more checks on her heart.&ldquo;By Monday she had been having a good day. We spent some great time together. On Tuesday she complained of chest pain and her leg became sore. Her hands began shaking and in two seconds it was all over.&ldquo;The doctor tried to resuscitate her. Even after she flatlined he tried adrenaline. Even the doctor began crying when he knew it was over.&ldquo;I then kissed her and told her she is now finally free of the pain,&rdquo; said her mom Natasha.Amy was diagnosed with complex cardiac abnormalities before birth and survived three open-heart surgeries - the first operation was when she was just 6-days-old and the next when she was 4-months-old.&lsquo;The old Amy came back for a bit&rsquo;The young girl became somewhat of a spokesperson for organ donation in recent months as her condition worsened.Speaking to News24 on Wednesday, Natasha said the family will treasure their final moments with the little girl.&ldquo;She had been in a lot of pain for the past two weeks. But in the last few days it was like we had the old Amy back. It was almost as if she knew. She gave us amazing times with her. We sang songs, read together - she just left us with amazing memories.&ldquo;She was the most amazing little girl who was wise beyond her years. She even jokingly asked if there are hot dogs in heaven.&rdquo;Natasha said she hoped Amy&rsquo;s passing would inspire others to become organ donors.&ldquo;Through Amy we will continue spreading the importance of organ donation and how it will help save lives. I just hope Amy&rsquo;s story will inspire people.&rdquo;Amy&rsquo;s funeral will take place at the Grace Family Church in Umhlanga, Durban, on Friday at 13:00.- The Organ Donation Foundation can be reached on 0800 22 66 11 on Monday - Friday between 09:00 - 16:00. 24.com encourages commentary submitted via MyNews24. Contributions of 200 words or more will be considered for publication.