Tammy Petersen, News24 (File, iStock) Multimedia    ·   User Galleries   ·   News in Pictures
	        Send us your pictures   ·  Send us your stories Cape Town - A licensing official and a driving school instructor were arrested in a sting operation after taking a R3 500 bribe from a driver's licence applicant, the City of Cape Town confirmed on Wednesday. The council’s Special Investigations Unit (SIU) and the Hawks were behind the sting operation on Tuesday where the duo was arrested on a charge of corruption, officials said in a statement. Mayoral committee member for safety and security JP Smith described it as a serious offence. "It ultimately means that people who are not competent are ending up behind the wheel on our roads, putting their own lives and the lives of others at risk and we will not stand for it," he said. The unit had received a tip-off in September that an applicant had been told he could secure his licence for R3 500 if he failed the test. The matter was investigated and when the 27-year-old learner driver arrived for his appointment at the New Ottery driving licence testing centre, he paid for his licence after his driving instructor told him that he was not competent. The examiner's office was raided soon afterwards and cash as well as the licensing documents were confiscated and handed in as evidence to police. The examiner and the driving instructor will appear in the Athlone Magistrate's Court on Thursday.Corruption would not be tolerated, Smith warned. "We will do everything possible to root out any employees who make themselves guilty of unethical or criminal behaviour. "The investigation will hopefully uncover the extent of any wrongdoing by this employee as I highly doubt that this was a first. I would not be surprised if more employees are identified as being complicit." The woman is the fifth council employee arrested in the last three months. Four licensing officials were arrested in August for circumventing the eNaTIS system and issuing vehicle licences to motorists, mostly taxi drivers, with admin marks against them. 24.com encourages commentary submitted via MyNews24. Contributions of 200 words or more will be considered for publication.  