(iStock)  
	        Multimedia    ·   User Galleries   ·   News in Pictures
	        Send us your pictures   ·  Send us your stories
	     Shawn Spammers shares his journey with HIV. Shawn is one of the eight finalists in the Change The Stigma project, which hopes to change the stigma around HIV/AIDS in South Africa.
WATCH New York - The UN children's fund says the number of adolescents dying from Aids has tripled over the last 15 years, most having acquired the disease when they were infants. Aids is the leading cause of deaths among adolescents in Africa, with six countries - South Africa, Nigeria, Kenya, India, Mozambique and Tanzania - accounting for half of those living with HIV, said Unicef statistical data released on Saturday. The disease is the second leading cause of deaths among adolescents around the world with 26 new infections occurring every hour. In sub-Saharan Africa, seven in 10 infections in 15-19 year olds are among girls, with about 70% of them not using condoms during sex. Only one-third of the 2.6 million children under the age of 15 living with HIV are receiving treatment, Unicef said. "The issue with adolescents is that most of those teenagers dying of Aids were infected as babies - they were infected due to mother-to-child-transmission before prevention of mother-to-child-transmission programmes were scaled up," said Craig Mcclure, global head of the HIV/Aids section at Unicef. "Also during adolescence, it's not a time you really look for HIV infection. So diagnosing adolescents living with HIV has been a problem," he said. However, the report also said preventative measures have helped save lives, with 1.3 million new infections averted among children since 2000. Mcclure told Al Jazeera the rate of infection among young children has dropped by 60% since 2000. "There were over 600 000 children infected with HIV in 2000 and fewer than 200000 this year," he said. Earlier this year, a UN report said the world can end the Aids epidemic within 15 years. Aids-related deaths have dropped more than 40% since 2004 to 1.2 million a year, the report said, adding new HIV infections have fallen 35% since 2001 to 2 million a year in 2014. 24.com encourages commentary submitted via MyNews24. Contributions of 200 words or more will be considered for publication.  