Grassy Park police confiscated two illegal firearms and ammunition last week. Multimedia &nbsp; &nbsp; User Galleries &nbsp; &nbsp; News in Pictures Send us your pictures &nbsp; &nbsp; Send us your stories Three men were arrested in the Mitchell s Plain policing cluster after they were found with illegal firearms and ammunition the past week. Police were instructed to step up visibility and crime prevention operations by cluster commander General Gregory Goss after sporadic shootings occurred throughout the area. Grassy Park police spokesperson Warrant Officer Wynita Kleinsmith says on Tuesday Grassy Park police responded to a shooting incident in Duiker Avenue, Lotus River where a 24-year-old woman had been shot in her left leg. A 19-year-old man was also shot in his left arm and buttocks. Both the victims went to hospital for medical treatment. Police followed up all leads and interacted with the community. Shortly thereafter two male suspects were arrested after both were found to be in possession of illegal firearms and ammunition, Kleinsmith says. The first suspect, a 30-year-old man, was found in possession of a 9mm Glock pistol and ammunition. The serial number of the firearm had been filed off.The second suspect, a 33-year-old man, was found in possession of a 9mm CZ100 and ammunition. Further investigation revealed that the firearm had been reported as stolen in Grassy Park during August. Both suspects remain in custody as police investigation continues around the shooting incident and the possession of the firearms and ammunition. It is yet to be determined if the shooting was gang-related, Kleinsmith says.Both suspects will be charged.Armed man at schoolPolice attended to a complaint on Monday last week at about 17:35 when a suspicious man illegally entered the premises of a high school in Hanover Park, says Philippi police spokesperson Lieutenant Lance Goliath. Upon arrival at the high school, a man was spotted. After apprehending and then searching him, police confiscated a 9mm Para Sig Sauer pistol and ammunition from him. The serial number of the pistol had been filed off, Goliath says. The 27-year-old suspect was arrested for the illegal possession of a firearm and ammunition. Police are also engaging with their neighbourhood watches whilst patrolling in their respective areas. Street and court committees are actively involved in the continuous fight against crime. Pamphlets pertaining to anti-drugs and anti-gangsterism information, as well as safety in the community, are constantly distributed, says Goliath. Goss says police will continue clamping down on crime and criminals. Police will maintain their zero-tolerance approach in the combatting and investigation of crime. Strengthening the partnership between the community and the police is high on the agenda as it is contributing to reducing crime and the apprehension of perpetrators, he adds. Goss says he is grateful to the police officers under his command and the respective communities in his policing precinct for a job well done during the past week.Police are appealing to the community to get involved in the information reward system. This system allows any adult to become pro-actively involved in the prevention of crime. Crime and criminals can be reported and a reward could be received by the reporter. V Anyone with information on crime can call the police on Crime Stop at 0860 010 111. All information will be treated as highly confidential. 24.com encourages commentary submitted via MyNews24. Contributions of 200 words or more will be considered for publication.