Tammy Petersen, News24Former bus driver Jerome Rose. (Lizel Lotriet-Sampie via Facebook) Multimedia &nbsp; &nbsp; User Galleries &nbsp; &nbsp; News in Pictures Send us your pictures &nbsp; &nbsp; Send us your stories Cape Town - Lawyers have offered their services pro bono to assist praying MyCiTi bus driver Jerome Rose, who&nbsp;was fired by the City of Cape Town after repeatedly leading passengers in prayer.&nbsp;"I have been praying for guidance for what my way forward should be," he told News24 on Thursday."I have been overwhelmed by the support I have received. People are calling me a hero and even a David going up against Goliath. I don&rsquo;t know what to say &ndash; I am just a guy who asked for the Lord&rsquo;s blessing."Rose, who&nbsp;drove the Cape Town/Atlantis route for the past year, was given a verbal warning on Friday November 6 to stop leading passengers in prayer after&nbsp;one of the&nbsp;them submitted a written complaint. But, despite this, he continued to pray, arguing he was a "Christian first, then a bus driver". He was eventually fired following a disciplinary hearing.&nbsp;He has, however, said he would appeal the ruling. "So many people contacted me to tell me they are keeping me in their prayers &ndash; even people from overseas," he said. "There is even a Facebook group for me. They call me 'Die Biddende Busbestuurder' [The Praying Bus driver]. I like that," said Rose. 'Bus driver was practicing his religion' Among those who have offered Rose assistance is Neil Coetzer, a senior associate in the employment law, benefits and industrial relations department of Cowan-Harper Attorneys in Sandton.Coetzer said the firm was willing to help Rose as the case appeared "absurd"."It is clear that the bus driver was practicing his religion &ndash; this shouldn&rsquo;t offend anyone," Coetzer pointed out.&nbsp;"His praying also wouldn&rsquo;t affect his ability to do his job." Rose said others had also generously offered to help him in his appeal against the ruling."But I will see to that next week; right now I just want to spend time with my family. When I lived in Atlantis to be closer to my job, I didn&rsquo;t have the luxury of spending so much time with them. I love being home."Should his appeal result in him being offered his job back, he said only had one requirement. "I want it in black and white that I am allowed to pray for me and my passengers," he said. 24.com encourages commentary submitted via MyNews24. Contributions of 200 words or more will be considered for publication.