Cape Town - A group of residents from the Los Angeles
informal settlement near Mfuleni in Cape Town, barricaded roads with burning
tyres earlier on Wednesday in protest against a lack of electricity in the
area. Community leader Thabo Mithi told News24 that residents
have had no electricity for several years, and that many have had to resort to
using illegal connections. He said an illegal connection recently killed a man in
the area. "His place had water, and he was electrocuted. He
left behind a wife and kids," he said. "We have raised our voices previously and nothing
has happened. This is the only way to let people know what is happening here -
who is going to be the next one who dies? "Does government enjoy seeing us suffering and
dying? As South African citizens, and even as human beings, don't we deserve
access to electricity?" The City of Cape Town confirmed that the protesters had
barricaded roads in the area. Acting Cape Town mayoral committee member for human
settlements JP Smith said the protesters had blocked part of the N2 highway
earlier in the morning, but the road was cleared quickly. Smith said the city was making an effort to improve the
lives of residents living in the Los Angeles informal settlement. He said
as part of a process to upgrade the informal settlement, the city entered
discussions with Eskom to electrify Los Angeles, as this is an Eskom supply
area. “As such, the planning and details of the electrification
of Los Angeles rests with Eskom,” said Smith. Eskom confirmed that the Los Angeles informal settlement
would be electrified in the next financial year. Eskom spokesperson Khulu Phasiwe said: “We had a number
of meetings with the community leaders, councillors and the community itself to
discuss these matters.” Phasiwe said last month Eskom had a public meeting in Los
Angeles answering questions. “There is a proposed meeting between Eskom and the city
for further discussions. Continued communication between all parties concerned
will assist in finding a resolution to the matter,” he said.