Naledi Shange, News24Pastor Mboro appears before the CRL Rights Commission. (Naledi Shange, News24) Multimedia &nbsp; &nbsp; User Galleries &nbsp; &nbsp; News in Pictures Send us your pictures &nbsp; &nbsp; Send us your stories Johannesburg - Prophet Paseka Motsoeneng, known for his non-conventional acts of healing, has refused to hand over his financial statements to the Commission for Rights of Cultural, Religious and Linguistic Communities (CRL Rights Commission).The CRL Rights Commission is investigating the commercialisation of religion and the abuse of people's beliefs and has summoned several religious organisations to appear before them.All those summoned to the hearings were required to produce their ordination certificate, the church registration certificate, bank statements and the annual financial statements dating from 2012.An empty-handed Motsoeneng, popularly known as Mboro, who&nbsp;was the leader of the Incredible Happenings church, said he came to seek clarity on what the hearings were actually about. He had last sent his lawyers to the proceedings and said he had heard that those who had failed to compile and hand over their documents would be jailed. He told the commissioners to do what they had to do."For my belief, I will be glad to go to jail. Even now, I can be taken there," Mboro said.It has previously been reported that Prophet Mboro claimed he could perform miracles."Now the headlines will be saying Mboro has R10m in his account.... I have enemies. Now they will know my strength and weakness... I want to protect myself, my church and my ministry so I have to look and consult thoroughly with my lawyers," he said.Sitting next to the pastor was his son who had his cr&egrave;che backpack with him, playing by his side.'Let us all play nice'Mboro sent him outside saying he did not want his son to be traumatised&nbsp;should his&nbsp;father be&nbsp;jailed.&nbsp;"Do what you have to do as you promised," he said.&nbsp;Commission chairperson Thoko Mkhwanazi-Xaluva gave Mboro a firm response.&nbsp;"If you say that you are not going to give [those documents], you might as well have stayed at home. Let us all play nice... You have not been accused of anything. You are not being treated any different from anyone," said Mkhwanazi-Xaluva.Mboro refused to answer questions, including whether his church was officially registered.&nbsp;He questioned whether religious leaders from the Zion Christian Church (ZCC) and the Islamic faith had also been summoned, adding that he felt targeted.&nbsp;Before proceedings began, Mboro pulled another controversial move when asked whether he chose to take an oath or rather take a solemn vow. Ironically, Mboro, who travels with a team of bodyguards, chose to take the solemn vow instead of taking the oath, saying one should be careful of how one used the name of God.After a back and forth with the commissioners, Mboro requested a postponement but maintained that his financial statements were private.The commission agreed to give Mboro a nine-day postponement to consult his lawyers and produce all his documents. He was expected back before the commission on November 18.24.com encourages commentary submitted via MyNews24. Contributions of 200 words or more will be considered for publication.