Naledi Shange, News24The scene where Mpanza was killed. CCTV footage can be seen outside the property. (Naledi Shange, News24) Multimedia &nbsp; &nbsp; User Galleries &nbsp; &nbsp; News in Pictures Send us your pictures &nbsp; &nbsp; Send us your stories Johannesburg - Khulekani Mpanza, killed after a police chase, seemed out of breath when the cops caught up with him and he was shot dead, an eyewitness told News24 on Tuesday.Arnold Feuth was present when police shot at Mpanza in what has since been labelled an act of execution. "I saw them shooting the guy," Feuth said.Asked whether Mpanza seemed angry when he was firing shots, Feuth said he could not say."He was more tired... He couldn't run anymore," Feuth said.Mpanza's killing was thrust into the spotlight after CCTV footage of the shooting surfaced.In the footage Feuth is seen wearing a red T-shirt, running behind the police as they chased Mpanza down Harvey Street in Lewisham, Krugersdorp.Feuth told News24 that he was lying on the couch on October 19 when he heard gunshots outside his house."I ran out and I saw the black guy with the gun in his hand. I also heard the cops coming and I chased after the guy with the gun," Feuth said.Mpanza 'fired shots'As he followed the police, Feuth said he witnessed Mpanza firing shots, one of which grazed a female officer."He shot the lady police officer in the arm and then she shot him," said Feuth."Then the other [policeman] came and shot [Mpanza] again."The video footage shows that at this time Mpanza was on the ground, already injured by the first shot. His firearm lay a short distance away from him.The second shot appeared to have hit Mpanza in the head. The four police officers have since been arrested and charged with murder.They are scheduled to appear in the Krugersdorp Magistrate's Court later on Tuesday. Arnold Feuth. (Naledi Shange, News24)Several shops were hit by shots fired by Panza and the police during the police chase. The arrows show the bullet holes. (Naledi Shange, News24)A computer screen damaged by one of Mpanza's shots. (Supplied) The wall of a shop close to the scene of the police chase. (Supplied) 24.com encourages commentary submitted via MyNews24. Contributions of 200 words or more will be considered for publication.