Samantha Lee A section of Strandfontein Road has been closed after a part of the road was washed away over the weekend. The stretch of road between Govan Mbeki Drive and New Ottery Road is one of the many damaged areas in the heavy rain and extreme weather on Su Multimedia &nbsp; &nbsp; User Galleries &nbsp; &nbsp; News in Pictures Send us your pictures &nbsp; &nbsp; Send us your stories The first day of the last month of spring saw wet weather conditions, destruction in its wake, and left several residents dead or injured. Rain and heavy winds caused serious damage to several areas around the province this past weekend.With several fatalities as a result of the wet weather, City infrastructure also suffered with several roads, homes and areas flooded or damaged. On Sunday, motorists who use Strandfontein Road needed to find an alternative route after a section of the roadway was washed away. This was as a result of the inclement weather, confirm City officials. One lane of the road between Govan Mbeki Drive and New Ottery Road was worst affected when the roadway collapsed as a result of heavy rain washing away one of the road&rsquo;s support pillars.The stretch of road is built over a narrow stream, but with the heavy rain filling the body of water, the stream became a raging gush of water, causing the damage. Brett Herron, mayoral committee member for transport, says there was no way of predicting this would happen. &ldquo;The contractor was working on the downstream side of the culvert, preparing the section for the widening of Strandfontein Road, when the unexpected and extreme flood that happened on Sunday appeared to have undermined the bases of the culverts. Subsequently the downstream section has collapsed,&rdquo; he says. No injuries were reported in the incident.The road remains closed to traffic. A timeline for repairs has not yet been established and the area could remain closed for several weeks as repairs get underway. &ldquo;Transport for Cape Town, the City&rsquo;s transport authority, has closed this section of Strandfontein Road between Govan Mbeki and Ottery Roads for safety reasons. A professional team is investigating possible repair solutions, taking into account the anticipated widening of Strandfontein Road as well. It is not possible to give an exact time frame as the professional team is still investigating possible solutions, save to say that it will take a number of weeks,&rdquo; says Herron. The cost of the damages could not be determined at the time of going to print. A Mitchell&rsquo;s Plain woman was also one of 15 people who died over the weekend in road accidents. The woman is believed to have died when a taxi she was travelling in overturned. Two other people were injured in this incident and treated. Share your views. Starting with the word &ldquo;Mpost&rdquo; SMS your thoughts to 32516. SMSes cost R1. Rain and heavy winds caused serious damage to several areas around the province this past weekend.One lane of the road between Govan Mbeki Drive and New Ottery Road was worst affected when the roadway collapsed as a result of heavy rain washing away one of the road&rsquo;s support pillars.No injuries were reported in the incident.Share your views. Starting with the word &ldquo;Mpost&rdquo; SMS your thoughts to 32516. SMSes cost R1. 24.com encourages commentary submitted via MyNews24. Contributions of 200 words or more will be considered for publication.