Nompendulo.Ngubane PHOTO: supplied Unite Mevana Media in conjunction with Durban Motion Pictures will be launching its movie on Saturday in Happy Corner­ Shisanyama in Howick. Multimedia    ·   User Galleries   ·   News in Pictures
	        Send us your pictures   ·  Send us your stories AS part of putting Howick on the map and showcasing its beautiful assets like Howick Falls, Unite Mevana­ Media will be launching its third movie, that was filmed in Howick on Saturday, at Happy Corner­ Shisanyama in Howick. The movie Shizila (Hustle) is not only a local movie, it’s motivation for the youth, said one of the actors, Lungile Ngubane. Various activities will take place before the launch of the movie­. The story is about a boy who struggles to pursue his dream in the film industry says Ngubane. “Along his ‘hustling’ journey he comes across challenges, but those challenges do not keep him away from fulfilling his dream of working on his film. The movie is based on a true story. “By creating such movies, we are trying to motivate the youth. There are many of them who get tired along the way. They are de-motivated by a lot of challenges. “The movie also shows that jealousy and greed are very dangerous. There is a part in the movie where a famous actor develops some jealousy. “He was asked to come and assist but because of jealousy things turn out differently. “All in all in the end the movie has a happy ending,” said Ngubane. This is their third movie their team has made. Their first movie project was Isono Sabazali which speaks about sin committed by parents) and Iphupho Lomzali (a parent’s dream). “With our first movies we were still learning. At the time the equipment we were using was not the best quality. “With this one, we are confident and we were using the best equipment­ when we were shooting. “Working with Durban Motion Pictures has opened the doors for us. Our movie will be part of the movies that will be screened on Mzansi Magic. “We are inviting everyone to come and support the local talent. People can buy the DVD for R50 to watch afterwards,” said Ngubane. The event starts at 3pm until late. For more information people may phone Wendy Khumalo on 072 676 0850.  24.com encourages commentary submitted via MyNews24. Contributions of 200 words or more will be considered for publication.  