Kaveel Singh, News24(File, iStock) Multimedia &nbsp; &nbsp; User Galleries &nbsp; &nbsp; News in Pictures Send us your pictures &nbsp; &nbsp; Send us your stories Durban &ndash; The shooting of a high school teacher in KwaZulu-Natal has sparked outrage from the provincial Department of Education, which has called for tough prison sentences on &ldquo;those attacking educators&rdquo;.This comes after three teachers were murdered in less than two weeks in the province. Sandile Hlela, 37, an educator at the Ntongande Secondary School in Mzingazi, Richards Bay was the latest to be killed after he was shot dead in his home at the Hlekwayo cottages early on Thursday morning.Police spokesperson Major Thulani Zwane said Richards Bay police were investigating a case of murder.&ldquo;It is alleged on November 19, 2015, at about 01:30, a 37-year-old man was allegedly shot while at Hlekwayo cottages by unknown suspects.&ldquo;He sustained gunshot wounds to the body and died at the scene. The motive for the killing is unknown. No arrests made, investigations are continuing.&rdquo;His killing follows that of Sikhumbuzo Mkhize, a teacher from Maphunga in Esandlwana in the Nquthu area last Friday. He is believed to have been killed whilst returning from a local shop. A 49-year-old male suspect has since been arrested. &nbsp;The earliest murder saw the gruesome killing of TS Mkhwanazi who was shot in full view of teachers and learners at Nomyaca Secondary school in Uthungulu District.Reacting to the killing, MEC for education Peggy Nkonyeni called for &ldquo;tough actions against the perpetrators&rdquo;.&ldquo;Once they are caught and convicted, they should receive heavy sentences that will send a strong message to everyone contemplating a similar heinous deed.&ldquo;The killing of a teacher takes us many steps back in our efforts to improve the quality of education. These are teachers with experience that we have lost and losing them is crippling our operations in schools,&rdquo; said Nkonyeni. 24.com encourages commentary submitted via MyNews24. Contributions of 200 words or more will be considered for publication.