Ben Burger Tasneem Cozyn (right) of Muizenberg High School is the People’s Post/Let’s Play Sport Star for May. She is a five-time world karate champion who hopes to one day compete in the Olympics. Here she is in action at the AU Sports Council Championship – Z Multimedia    ·   User Galleries   ·   News in Pictures
	        Send us your pictures   ·  Send us your stories The People’s Post/Let’s Play Sport Star for May is a young woman from Muizenberg High School. Tasneem Cozyn (18) is a five-time world champion in Kimura Shukokai karate and has been a junior Protea for the past six years. Earlier this year she earned her senior Protea colours by winning the below 68kg senior women’s kumite division at the Karate South Africa u.21, Seniors, Veterans and Masters national championships in Polokwane. She also won the below 68kg u.21 women’s kumite division. At the end of May she competed in the AU Sports Council Championship (zone 6) in Johannesburg. The championship teams came from six countries, namely South Africa, Namibia, Mozambique, Botswana, Zambia and Zimbabwe. Tasneem won silver in the open women’s team kumite event against Botswana, then another silver in the open women’s kumite and a double gold for kata and kumite in the u.21 division. Tasneem is the eldest of five children and has a sister, Ayesha (10), and three brothers, Tayyib (16), Zainudeen (7) and Ubayd (5). She says that her siblings and parents are her biggest supporters. “My love for karate started nine years ago when I attended a trial class. After that class I knew I really found my passion and love for karate,” Tasneem says. “My secret to success is putting in hours of hard training, being disciplined in terms of eating healthy and always making sure I train harder than my opponent, and most of all always staying humble,” she says. Her favourite aspect of the sport is representing her country and travelling the world with her teammates. Her dream is to represent South Africa at the Olympic Games if karate is selected as an Olympic sport for the 2020 Games in Tokyo. “I would also love opening my own dojo and teaching the discipline of karate to others,” Tasneem says. She has been selected to compete in Croatia at the eighth World Karate Federation (WKF) Youth Camp and Karate 1 Youth Cup at the end of June, but will only be able to go if she gets sponsorship. According to Fatwah Barendse, who nominated Tasneem People’s Post/Let’s Play Sport Star of the Month award, Tasneem is the only South African to have won a silver medal at the previous Youth Cup that was held in Greece in 2013. Tasneem has also been selected for the South African team to compete at the WKF junior karate world championship in Indonesia in November. Other competitions Tasneem has competed in: . Sugihara Cup International in New Zealand in 2011, where she won silver for kumite, . Commonwealth Games in Australia in 2011, where she won silver for kumite, . Kimura Shukokai International World Championship in the United States in 2012, where she won gold for kata and unison kata (girls 16-17 years) and silver for kumite, . The second International Karate Open in the United Arab Emirates in 2013, where she won bronze for kumite and silver for team kumite, and . Kimura Shukokai International World Championship in Johannesburg in 2014, where she became world champion for both kata and kumite in the u.21 division. The People’s Post/Let’s Play Sport Star for May is a young woman from Muizenberg High School. Tasneem Cozyn (18) is a five-time world champion in Kimura Shukokai karate and has been a junior Protea for six years. Earlier this year she earned her senior Protea colours by winning the below 68kg senior women’s kumite division at the Karate South Africa u.21, Seniors, Veterans and Masters national championships in Polokwane. She also won the below 68kg u.21 women’s kumite division. At the end of May she competed in the AU Sports Council Championship (zone 6) in Johannesburg. Tasneem won silver in the open women’s team kumite event against Botswana, then another silver in the open women’s kumite and a double gold for kata and kumite in the u.21 division. Tasneem is the eldest of five children and says that her siblings and parents are her biggest supporters. “My love for karate started nine years ago when I attended a trial class. After that class I knew I really found my passion and love for karate,” Tasneem says. “My secret to success is putting in hours of hard training, being disciplined in terms of eating healthy and always making sure I train harder than my opponent, and most of all always staying humble,” she says. Her favourite aspect of the sport is representing her country and travelling the world with her teammates. Her dream is to represent South Africa at the Olympic Games if karate is selected as an Olympic sport for the 2020 Games in Tokyo. “I would also love opening my own dojo and teaching the discipline of karate to others,” Tasneem says. She has been selected to compete in Croatia at the eighth World Karate Federation (WKF) Youth Camp and Karate 1 Youth Cup at the end of June, but will only be able to go if she gets sponsorship. According to Fatwah Barendse, who nominated Tasneem, she is the only South African who won silver at the previous Youth Cup. Tasneem is also in the team to compete at the WKF junior championship in November. Other competitions Tasneem has competed in: . Sugihara Cup International in 2011 – silver for kumite, . Commonwealth Games in 2011 – silver for kumite, . Kimura Shukokai International World Championship in 2012 – gold for kata and unison kata (girls 16-17 years), silver for kumite, . International Karate Open in 2013 – bronze for kumite, silver for team kumite, and . Kimura Shukokai International World Championship in 2014 – world champion for both kata and kumite in the u.21 division. The People’s Post/Let’s Play Sport Star for May is a young woman from Muizenberg High School. Tasneem Cozyn (18) is a five-time world champion in Kimura Shukokai karate and has been a junior Protea for the past six years. Earlier this year she earned her senior Protea colours by winning the below 68kg senior women’s kumite division at the Karate South Africa u.21, Seniors, Veterans and Masters national championships in Polokwane. She also won the below 68kg u.21 women’s kumite division. At the end of May she competed in the AU Sports Council Championship (zone 6) in Johannesburg. The championship teams came from six countries, namely South Africa, Namibia, Mozambique, Botswana, Zambia and Zimbabwe. Tasneem won silver in the open women’s team kumite event against Botswana, then another silver in the open women’s kumite and a double gold for kata and kumite in the u.21 division. Tasneem is the eldest of five children and has a sister, Ayesha (10), and three brothers, Tayyib (16), Zainudeen (7) and Ubayd (5). She says that her siblings and parents are her biggest supporters. “My love for karate started nine years ago when I attended a trial class. After that class I knew I really found my passion and love for karate,” Tasneem says. “My secret to success is putting in hours of hard training, being disciplined in terms of eating healthy and always making sure I train harder than my opponent, and most of all always staying humble,” she says. Her favourite aspect of the sport is representing her country and travelling the world with her teammates. Her dream is to represent South Africa at the Olympic Games if karate is selected as an Olympic sport for the 2020 Games in Tokyo. “I would also love opening my own dojo and teaching the discipline of karate to others,” Tasneem says. She has been selected to compete in Croatia at the eighth World Karate Federation (WKF) Youth Camp and Karate 1 Youth Cup at the end of June, but will only be able to go if she gets sponsorship. According to Fatwah Barendse, who nominated Tasneem People’s Post/Let’s Play Sport Star of the Month award, Tasneem is the only South African to have won a silver medal at the previous Youth Cup that was held in Greece in 2013. Tasneem has also been selected for the South African team to compete at the WKF junior karate world championship in Indonesia in November. Other competitions Tasneem has competed in: . Sugihara Cup International in New Zealand in 2011, where she won silver for kumite, . Commonwealth Games in Australia in 2011, where she won silver for kumite, . Kimura Shukokai International World Championship in the United States in 2012, where she won gold for kata and unison kata (girls 16-17 years) and silver for kumite, . The second International Karate Open in the United Arab Emirates in 2013, where she won bronze for kumite and silver for team kumite, and . Kimura Shukokai International World Championship in Johannesburg in 2014, where she became world champion for both kata and kumite in the u.21 division 24.com encourages commentary submitted via MyNews24. Contributions of 200 words or more will be considered for publication.  