Kyle Venktess, The WitnessDevan Naidoo is searching for his dogs Skippy and Zoey after they were stolen along with his vehicle. (Supplied) Multimedia &nbsp; &nbsp; User Galleries &nbsp; &nbsp; News in Pictures Send us your pictures &nbsp; &nbsp; Send us your stories Pietermaritzburg - A man is &shy;desperately trying to find his two &shy;miniature Dachshund dogs, after they were stolen with his vehicle from Roberts Road.Last Thursday, Devan Naidoo was visiting a friend in the area when he heard the distinct noise of his vehicle starting up and driving away. &ldquo;I just got home from work and the dogs were excited to see me. They always like jumping in the car before me and going for a ride. They always sat in the front seat, so I took them and left them in the car with the windows open when I stopped, because I was only going to be gone for 10 minutes,&rdquo; he said.Naidoo said he had only been parked for five minutes when he heard the vehicle drive away. &ldquo;My car makes a distinct screech when I drive it so I knew it was being taken.&rdquo;He ran outside only to see the car disappearing with his two beloved dogs inside.&ldquo;We got into another car and drove in the direction I saw the vehicle moving,&rdquo; he said.Naidoo said he saw the vehicle driving in the direction of Taylor&rsquo;s Halt and was more concerned about finding the dogs than his vehicle.&ldquo;Dogs become like family. They were so excited to see me every time they saw me drive into the yard. We miss them very much. My father was very fond of them and he also misses them,&rdquo; he said.Naidoo placed posters in the area they suspect the dogs to have been taken to and even searched the area himself, thinking the thieves who took the vehicle might have thrown the dogs out.&ldquo;We have had both of the dogs since they were puppies. Skippy is a black male and is nine years old, while Zoey is brown and is six years old. They were both wearing gold chains.&ldquo;Ever since they have been gone we have been trying to find them. My cellphone with all the pictures we took of them was also in the car when it was stolen,&rdquo; he said.A reward of R10 000 has been offered for the return of the dogs24.com encourages commentary submitted via MyNews24. Contributions of 200 words or more will be considered for publication.