Mthunzi Mbatha Mthunzi Mbatha @MthunziMbathaLizalise idinga lakho Thixo wenyaniso (Truthful God fulfill your promise). This song is believed to have been sung at the launch of the Freedom Charter on this day 60 years ago.The men and women who gathered in Kliptown, Johannesburg, that day to draft the master plan of the ideal South Africa that &ldquo;belongs to all who live in it...&rdquo; must have chosen Reverend Tiyo Soga&rsquo;s hymn for a reason.Six decades later, the country is a constitutional democracy with some of the trappings of the modern world economy.To those who enjoy the fruits of this dispensation, the promise Soga prayed for has been fulfilled and freedom reigns.But for the majority of poor South Africans economic freedom remains just a dream only real to a faithful heart and mind. Kliptown, the birthplace of arguably the most universal South African pledge, remains the face of poverty. It is not a place where there are &ldquo;houses, security and comfort&rdquo;. While politicians fight over who is the custodian of the Charter, residents of this iconic place fight hunger, poverty and disease.It is most apt today to reflect on some of the clauses of this pledge with a hope that the promise of freedom is fulfilled for all who call this beautiful land home.&nbsp;Mthunzi Mbatha @MthunziMbathaLizalise idinga lakho Thixo wenyaniso (Truthful God fulfill your promise). This song is believed to have been sung at the launch of the Freedom Charter on this day 60 years ago.The men and women who gathered in Kliptown, Johannesburg, that day to draft the master plan of the ideal South Africa that &ldquo;belongs to all who live in it...&rdquo; must have chosen Reverend Tiyo Soga&rsquo;s hymn for a reason.Six decades later, the country is a constitutional democracy with some of the trappings of the modern world economy.To those who enjoy the fruits of this dispensation, the promise Soga prayed for has been fulfilled and freedom reigns.But for the majority of poor South Africans economic freedom remains just a dream only real to a faithful heart and mind. Kliptown, the birthplace of arguably the most universal South African pledge, remains the face of poverty. It is not a place where there are &ldquo;houses, security and comfort&rdquo;. While politicians fight over who is the custodian of the Charter, residents of this iconic place fight hunger, poverty and disease.24.com encourages commentary submitted via MyNews24. Contributions of 200 words or more will be considered for publication.