Jeff Wicks, News24 Brett Williams (Supplied) Multimedia    ·   User Galleries   ·   News in Pictures
	        Send us your pictures   ·  Send us your stories Durban - Blayne Shepard, 25, accused of murdering former Royal Marine Brett Williams at a rugby match two years ago, was found guilty of culpable homicide on Monday, The Mercury reported. The paper reported that Shepard had appeared before Durban Regional Court magistrate Trevor Levitt. Williams was killed at Kings Park rugby stadium after a match between the Sharks and the Melbourne Rebels two years ago. Levitt found that Williams had been kicked to death, but the State had not proved that the intention had been to kill him. Williams had been working on a ship that was docked in Durban at the time of his death. During the trial last year, several witnesses claimed there had been stomping and punching as a group overwhelmed security guards and assaulted Williams. Shepard was initially charged, along with three others, of killing Williams. A fifth, Grant Cramer, was initially charged with assault but turned State witness. The case against Andries van der Merwe, Dustin van Wyk and Shepard's older brother Kyle was withdrawn in December. They had each faced a charge of murder, three of assault with intent to do grievous bodily harm, one of crimen injuria and one of public violence. Levitt ruled "uneasily" that the evidence against the three did not reach the required standards for a prima facie case against them, but that Shepard still had a case to answer. The Sharks welcomed the judgment. "We thrive on creating a family environment at the stadium where all ages can enjoy a wonderful match-day experience in a safe and secure environment. We have a zero tolerance policy with regard to untoward behaviour at the stadium and we don’t condone this in the strictest terms," the union said via a statement on Tuesday.   24.com encourages commentary submitted via MyNews24. Contributions of 200 words or more will be considered for publication.