News24 Correspondent (File: AP) 
	        Multimedia    ·   User Galleries   ·   News in Pictures
	        Send us your pictures   ·  Send us your stories
	     Mbombela - A sangoma accused of raping 21 girls at his
initiation school in Mpumalanga in 2012 has been found guilty on 17 rape counts
and three sexual assault charges.  Johan Jabulani Mlombo, 48 was convicted when he appeared
with his wife, Sister Mapalase Khoza, 41, in the Nelspruit Circuit Local
Division of the Eastern Circuit District Court on Tuesday.  His wife was also found guilty of two counts of common
assault and one of assault with intent to cause grievous bodily harm. The couple were faced with charges of assaulting and
raping 21 girls, aged between 9 and 17, at their initiation school in Mahushu. Both accused pleaded not guilty to the rape and sexual
assault charges as well as to charges of a further 19 counts of assault with
intent to cause grievous bodily harm. In his judgment, Judge JJ Strydom said Mlombo testified
that as a sangoma, he assisted sick people by curing them. “You said you obtained permission from the local chief to
run an initiation school, which happens yearly. You also assisted those
attacked by ghosts," he said, adding that in his testimony,
Mlombo had said that his actions on August 29 2012 had been intended
to protect the initiates after they had seen a ghost.  “You said you and accused two [Khoza] agreed to
perform 'Ingoma Enkulu' [Big Initiation] to protect them. You agreed touching
them, but denied putting your fingers in the vaginal organs or raping them,”
said Strydom. Strydom said according to the victims, after they were
ordered into the dark room, they were asked to find a grass mat and lie down,
facing up.  The accused then smeared muti on their bodies and then brushed
their vaginas, before raping them. “Their evidence was corroborated by statements from the
forensic nurses who examined them, after finding injuries on their private
parts... When asked why they had injuries on their private parts, [Mlombo]
could not answer,” he said. The judge said Mlombo approached one of the girls while
they were bathing in a river and told her she was "nice" so he
would "do it again on Friday". Strydom said while Mlombo had denied saying that - saying
instead that he had only approached the river to warn the girls to stay away
from boys - the State had proved beyond reasonable doubt that Mlombo
was guilty.  The case was postponed to October 1 for sentencing to
allow for psychiatric reports on the victims to be completed. 24.com encourages commentary submitted via MyNews24. Contributions of 200 words or more will be considered for publication.  