(Shutterstock) Multimedia    ·   User Galleries   ·   News in Pictures
	        Send us your pictures   ·  Send us your stories Abuja - Seven people died when a military plane crashed into a house in northern Nigeria on Saturday, killing everyone on board, the air force and disaster management officials said. The Dornier-228 had set off from a military airfield in the city of Kaduna at 06:45 (05:45 GMT), bound for the capital Abuja, air force spokesperson Air Commodore Dele Alonge said in a statement. "Though no casualty was recorded on ground, there were no survivors among the passengers on board the aircraft," he said. He told AFP the number of dead was not yet clear but a spokesperson for the National Emergency Management Agency told AFP that "four crew members - including two engineers - and three other passengers were on board". Firefighters were battling to stop the blaze spreading to other nearby buildings, he added. Air force chief Air Marshal Sadique Abubakar launched an investigation into the cause and aborted an official visit to the southern city of Port Harcourt to visit the crash site and families of the victims. Nigeria, Africa's most populous country of more than 170 million people, has seen a series of deadly air disasters - civilian and military - that have claimed hundreds of lives in recent years. Earlier this month a helicopter crashed into a lagoon in Lagos, killing six, including the American pilot, while a Nigerian military helicopter crashed in July last year in northeastern Nigeria, killing two of the three people on board. On October 3 2013, a charter plane with 20 people on board suffered engine failure shortly after take-off from Lagos, crash-landing near a fuel depot and killing at least 14. A plane operated by Nigerian commercial airline Dana Air crashed outside the city in 2012, killing 159 people. Nigeria's worst air accident was in 1973, when 176 people died in a crash involving a Nigeria Airways Boeing 707 flying from Jeddah to Kano, according to the Aviation Safety Network website 24.com encourages commentary submitted via MyNews24. Contributions of 200 words or more will be considered for publication.  