Amanda Khoza, News24 Senzo Meyiwa (File: AP) Multimedia    ·   User Galleries   ·   News in Pictures
	        Send us your pictures   ·  Send us your stories Durban – It has been almost a year since South African and Orlando Pirates goalkeeper Senzo Meyiwa was shot and killed in his girlfriend’s home, but an arrest is yet to be made. His father Sam said he still had faith in the police, though. Speaking to News24 on Wednesday, Meyiwa admitted he hadn’t heard from the police for some time now. He said he had stopped communicating with the police because he was accused of interfering. “They say that every time I open my mouth I interfere with the case, so I won’t say anything anymore,” said Meyiwa. Meyiwa said October would mark the first anniversary of his son’s death and he was glad that the police had not given up on finding Senzo’s killers. “We still miss him very much. We will only be okay once the police make an arrest. We want to find closure,” said Meyiwa. The news that popular South African musician Chicco Twala’s gun had been confiscated because police reportedly suspected it was used to shoot Senzo made him happy. Glad Twala's gun taken for ballistics tests “I am glad they took his gun, they must look at every possible lead to make sure that they arrest those that took Senzo away from us,” said Meyiwa. Twala told a Sunday newspaper his firearm was seized three months after the murder, taken for ballistics tests and returned three weeks later. “I co-operated because I knew my son would not do that. Senzo and my son were close… I treated him like a son,” Twala was quoted as saying in a story published by the Sunday World. Twala’s son, Longwe, was at Afropop singer Kelly Khumalo’s home visiting his girlfriend, Zandi - Khumalo's younger sister - when the incident happened last year. Kelly and Senzo had a daughter together, and were rumoured to be in a relationship . He was, however, still married to Mandisa Mkhize. Meyiwa said he always cautioned his son against bad friends. Friends know what really happened “There were friends that I did not like and he knew that. All the ones that were there that night are now quiet about what really happened. They are the ones that really know what happened,” said Meyiwa. The Meyiwa family said they were struggling financially since Senzo’s death. “We are barely making ends meet. Zama, my daughter, is the only one who is supporting the family.” In May, Meyiwa told the media that his son was killed by three hit men from KwaZulu-Natal and that an arrest was looming. National police spokesperson, Lieutenant General Solomon Makgale, said police could not divulge sensitive information to the media. Makgale would also not confirm or deny that Twala's firearm had been taken in as had been claimed in the media. "We need to protect the investigation because we don't want Senzo's killers to know what we are doing. But with that said, we are making good progress, we have a detailed plan and we have a dedicated team working on the case. "We remain hopeful that we will get some results soon," said Makgale. 24.com encourages commentary submitted via MyNews24. Contributions of 200 words or more will be considered for publication.  