Mary-Anne Gontsana, GroundUpFrom the German cut to the razor cut and from dreadlocks to braids, men and women in Cape Town&rsquo;s townships have plenty of imagination when it comes to trending hairstyles.On almost every pavement in townships like Gugulethu and Mfuleni, shipping containers have been turned into hair salons. Some are salons where women can get their hair and nails done and some are barber shops, mostly owned by foreigners, where men queue to get their hair cut. Walking through the top deck of the taxi rank in Cape Town, you pass numerous hair shops where you can either buy hair or get your hair done. Most of the hairstylists find their customers by standing at the taxi rank drop off points and showing them a poster with a choice of hairstyles. (Photo: Masixole Feni) The Madiba haircut made famous by former president Nelson Mandela with a shaved line running along the side. Similar cuts can have two or three lines. This haircut is mostly popular amongst young men like Sinethemba Makakheta, but women are choosing it too. (Photo: Masixole Feni) The soft dread is popular among women who like the big hair trend. Thembela Ntongana has short synthetic soft dread hair sewn on to her own hair, but the soft dread can also be braided on to hair. Soft dread also comes in bigger, thicker curls. (Photo: Thembela Ntongana) Vuyiswa Maneli shows off the twisted braid, known as &ldquo;itwist&rdquo; in the township. This popular hairstyle uses synthetic hair bought from cosmetic shops. Depending on the size and length of the braids, up to five packets of synthetic hair can be used. Doing the twist can take up to five hours and some customers go back to the hairstylist to finish up the following day. Like other braids, the twist is plaited or braided onto the customer&rsquo;s own hair and it can be tied or styled in many ways. (Pic: Masixole Feni) Stacey Naledi Lipindhi who runs the hair salon does the razor cut, which is similar to a hairstyle called the boy cut. Also made with synthetic or human hair, the razor cut is a short hairstyle which does not need much maintenance. The customer&rsquo;s own hair is plaited into rows using wool, and synthetic or human hair is sewn on to the plaits. The synthetic or human hair is then cut with a hair clipper to create the style the customer wants. Unlike hairpieces, the razor cut is maintained by simply spraying oil sheen on it to make it shine, and curling it every few weeks if it goes straight. (Photo: Masixole Feni) 24.com encourages commentary submitted via MyNews24. Contributions of 200 words or more will be considered for publication.