Reporter =Michelle Pyper from SAMIL, Alta Lategan and Jihaad Allie PR Intern at Mohair SA with the Pola Park visitors to the world of Mohair.
Photo:
SUPPLIED Multimedia    ·   User Galleries   ·   News in Pictures
	        Send us your pictures   ·  Send us your stories Alta Lategan, a retired music teacher from Uitenhage, discovered that the town is home to the biggest Mohair processing plant and decided to introduce kids to workings of this industry. She became involved with a group of children from her area (ages 8-17). They visit her on a weekly basis at home where she teaches them from the Bible and tries to expose them to a wider world. “She contacted Mohair SA for assistance. Touched by her story Mohair SA decided to collaborate with the local Mohair processors. SAMIL agreed to co-ordinate an educational outing for the children,” said Robyn Rütters from Mohair SA Media and Communications. “The eyes of 12 children lit up as they were guided on a tour through Cape Mohair and Wool to explain the sorting process of the greasy mohair. The tour ended by handing all the children a chance to let their hair down by jumping into the heaps of Mohair.” The young audience enthusiastically quizzed their friendly “tourguide”, Michelle Pyper from SAMIL and loved experimenting with the Mohair yarns. When their outing came to an end each child received a Mohair hamper that included a pair of Mohair socks, as well as a Mohair blanket to keep him or her warm during winter. They expressed their heartfelt appreciation by singing their ‘thank you’ song to all involved with the planning of the day. “We often take the knowledge and experiences which we have acquired by our daily situations for granted. Alta’s contribution to these young children enriches the lives of our youths. Although this was a 67minute for Mandela Day contribution from the Mohair Industry, learning something new is a gift that lasts forever,” said Rütters. Through marketing, and various other functions, Mohair SA aims to promote the advancement of the entire Mohair industry. From producer to processor, buyer to manufacturer, Mohair SA plays a key role in creating a sustainable demand and ensuring profitability for all role players 24.com encourages commentary submitted via MyNews24. Contributions of 200 words or more will be considered for publication.  