Jenna Etheridge, News24 Stellenbosch University 
	        Multimedia    ·   User Galleries   ·   News in Pictures
	        Send us your pictures   ·  Send us your stories
	     Cape Town - A Stellenbosch University student has been suspended from his residence after another student complained he had made derogatory remarks to him. "The incident took place in the foyer of the Helshoogte Residence in the early hours of last Friday morning," university spokesperson Martin Viljoen confirmed on Monday. He could not say what the remarks were or the nature thereof, but revealed the complainant was coloured and the respondent white. According to Netwerk24, final year music student Nathan Lewis, who stays in a private residence, was attending a house dance at Helshoogte Residence last week when students allegedly asked what he was doing there. When he said he had come to visit because he was part of their singing group, one student allegedly called him a "k****-moffie", according to the report. The university said it was investigating the complaint and would not hesitate to take disciplinary action if necessary. "Stellenbosch University maintains a policy of zero tolerance with regard to the violation of human rights, victimisation in any form, racism, classism, sexism and all other forms of discrimination." The suspension related only to the student's placement in residence and not to his study status. The university has been under the spotlight for a number of race-related issues. Most recently, students and a lecturer spoke of anti-black racism on and off campus in a widely-circulated documentary, Luister (Listen). In May, the university terminated its contract with a lecturer who admitted to sending an alleged racist SMS to a student. University management will on Tuesday appear before the portfolio committee on higher education and training to table its transformation plans after allegations of racism at the institution. Rector and Vice-Chancellor Professor Wim de Villiers had said he welcomed the invitation, adding the university would subsequently also provide feedback to Higher Education and Training Minister Blade Nzimande on its transformation challenges, progress made, current initiatives and future plans. 24.com encourages commentary submitted via MyNews24. Contributions of 200 words or more will be considered for publication.  