Jason Felix, Media24 Parliamentary Bureau Enver Surty Multimedia    ·   User Galleries   ·   News in Pictures
	        Send us your pictures   ·  Send us your stories Johannesburg - A forensic audit into an alleged scandal that rocked the education industry over sex and cash for school principal positions will be completed next month. Deputy Minister of Basic Education Enver Surty said on Wednesday in a question-and-answer session in Parliament that there were many whistle-blowers, who had handed over good evidence to the department. He was reacting to a question from Democratic Alliance member of Parliament Annette Lovemore, who was requesting that the report should be made public. “Initially, the report would have been completed in June this year. However there were many people who brought new evidence and information to our attention and we were then required to investigate and look at the new evidence,” said Surty. In May last year, City Press reported that a senior member of the South African Democratic Teachers’ Union allegedly demanded sex from a female teacher in exchange for a principal position in Gauteng. City Press also uncovered a syndicate in which members of the union allegedly colluded with department officials to sell principal posts for R30 000. In a follow-up question, Lovemore questioned whether Surty was taking the matter seriously. “How serious are you and the departmental heads about tackling this sort of corruption in the department? People were paid up to R30 000 for vacancies. This is unacceptable.” Surty replied that he was aware of the large amounts that people had been paid. “We are very serious about tackling corruption in the department and I think all political parties in this house feel strong about corruption,” he said. “We had asked for a forensic audit to be done, it is still being investigated, there are many whistle blowers that have brought forward excellent information and evidence that we are investigating and verifying. It is definitely not hearsay … every detail will be verified.” Surty added that the whistle-blowers had felt comfortable handing over proof to the department. “Our programme with whistle blowers is excellent. The information that has been handed over to us is excellent. Of course, they remain anonymous.”  24.com encourages commentary submitted via MyNews24. Contributions of 200 words or more will be considered for publication.  