Earl Haupt Major-General Robbie Robberts bids an emotional farewell to the police, which he has worked for for 32 years. Multimedia    ·   User Galleries   ·   News in Pictures
	        Send us your pictures   ·  Send us your stories The Nyanga policing cluster office has bid farewell to two members as cluster commander Major-General Robbie Robberts and Colonel Shirley Rainers, head of visible policing, retired on Friday last week. Robberts, who has been with the police for 32 years, will take up a new role within the City of Cape Town, which he hopes will serve the broader community. According to Lieutenant Ian Bennett, Robberts is a passionate man who has his community at heart. “He was available 24/7 for the community and they could call him at any time of the day or night,” says Bennett. “His passion was his purpose and he served his community at various levels, from crime prevention to its social needs.” Bennett praises Robberts for his efforts in regard to service delivery and the way in which he handled his tasks with distinction. “Under his command respect and being truthful was ultimate in delivering quality and efficient service to all in the precinct of Nyanga,” says Bennett. Fellow colleagues and members of the public attended a farewell event for Robberts and Rainer at the Athlone police station, with many station commanders reminiscing about their times together whilst also thanking Robberts for his leadership qualities. The Nyanga policing cluster office has bid farewell to two members as cluster commander Major-General Robbie Robberts and Colonel Shirley Rainers, head of visible policing, retired on Friday last week. Robberts, who has been with the police for 32 years, will take up a new role within the City of Cape Town, which he hopes will serve the broader community. According to Lieutenant Ian Bennett, Robberts is a passionate man who has his community at heart. “He was available 24/7 for the community and they could call him at any time of the day or night,” says Bennett. “His passion was his purpose and he served his community at various levels, from crime prevention to its social needs.” Bennett praises Robberts for his efforts in regard to service delivery and the way in which he handled his tasks with distinction. “Under his command respect and being truthful was ultimate in delivering quality and efficient service to all in the precinct of Nyanga,” says Bennett. Fellow colleagues and members of the public attended a farewell event for Robberts and Rainer at the Athlone police station, with many station commanders reminiscing about their times together whilst also thanking Robberts for his leadership qualities. 24.com encourages commentary submitted via MyNews24. Contributions of 200 words or more will be considered for publication.  