Multimedia &nbsp; &nbsp; User Galleries &nbsp; &nbsp; News in Pictures Send us your pictures &nbsp; &nbsp; Send us your stories Cock and bulldog Election watchers who had expected the Lesotho poll to erupt in violence had nothing to write home about, except for an incident at the SADC mission in Maseru over the weekend.Reports emerged that a cock, which regularly roamed around the building, was eaten by a bomb-sniffing police dog with bad eyesight and a troublesome demeanour.These allegations were dispelled the next day when the cock was found alive and well in a tree. He was awarded hero status while the attacker spent a day in the dog box.SADC staff merely collapsed with laughter when asked for comment.Bloody agentJulius Malema must have laughed himself silly when he heard our spooks were investigating him on suspicion of working with the CIA. The source of the information? A fake US-based blog. According to the blog, Malema, Public Protector Thuli Madonsela and former DA parliamentary leader Lindiwe Mazibuko are all part of a plot by the Yanks to undermine government. Asked by a talk radio host what he thought of the allegations, the irrepressible Juju responded: Ag Nx, I won t even answer that. That question belongs in preschool. Doctor Who? SA s ambassador to Japan, Mohau Pheko, has admitted she lied about her qualifications. She misrepresented herself, claiming she had a PhD when she hadn t completed the degree. She told the SABC she registered with La Salle University in the US, but it closed down before she could complete her studies . It turns out the university was selling academic qualifications on the internet. But Pheko still describes herself as a doctor because, according to her, the university still owes her a degree. Is that like Dr Dre, Dr Dolittle or Dr Frankenstein? The source of the information? A fake US-based blog.According to the blog, Malema, Public Protector Thuli Madonsela and former DA parliamentary leader Lindiwe Mazibuko are all part of a plot by the Yanks to undermine government.Asked by a talk radio host what he thought of the allegations, the irrepressible Juju responded: Ag Nx, I won t even answer that. That question belongs in preschool. Doctor Who? SA s ambassador to Japan, Mohau Pheko, has admitted she lied about her qualifications. She misrepresented herself, claiming she had a PhD when she hadn t completed the degree. She told the SABC she registered with La Salle University in the US, but it closed down before she could complete her studies . It turns out the university was selling academic qualifications on the internet. But Pheko still describes herself as a doctor because, according to her, the university still owes her a degree. Is that like Dr Dre, Dr Dolittle or Dr Frankenstein? Doctor Who? SA s ambassador to Japan, Mohau Pheko, has admitted she lied about her qualifications. She misrepresented herself, claiming she had a PhD when she hadn t completed the degree. She told the SABC she registered with La Salle University in the US, but it closed down before she could complete her studies . It turns out the university was selling academic qualifications on the internet. But Pheko still describes herself as a doctor because, according to her, the university still owes her a degree. Is that like Dr Dre, Dr Dolittle or Dr Frankenstein? SA s ambassador to Japan, Mohau Pheko, has admitted she lied about her qualifications. She misrepresented herself, claiming she had a PhD when she hadn t completed the degree.She told the SABC she registered with La Salle University in the US, but it closed down before she could complete her studies .It turns out the university was selling academic qualifications on the internet.But Pheko still describes herself as a doctor because, according to her, the university still owes her a degree.Is that like Dr Dre, Dr Dolittle or Dr Frankenstein?24.com encourages commentary submitted via MyNews24. Contributions of 200 words or more will be considered for publication.