The pupils from Philippi High School protest outside the Western Cape education department. (Paul Herman, News24) Multimedia    ·   User Galleries   ·   News in Pictures
	        Send us your pictures   ·  Send us your stories Police used stun grenades to disperse pupils who were protesting outside the Western Cape education department on Friday. Watch. WATCH Daneel Knoetze, GroundUp Cape Town - A protest by pupils from Philippi High School
over the lack of infrastructure and classrooms at their campus was violently
dispersed by police officers on Friday morning. When an armoured police vehicle moved on protesting pupils
outside the Western Cape department of education in the Cape Town central city,
the children decided to stay put. Student leaders directed their fellows to sit
down on the paving to form a human chain and to face off the police line. They sang struggle songs and cheered as the police Nyala
armoured car halted within touching distance of the front line of students. Stun grenades But seconds later, public order police (POP) officers threw
the first two stun grenades at the pupils seated in the front line of the
protest. There was momentary pandemonium as pupils darted up the
pedestrian walkway of Lower Parliament Street, with the Nyala and police
officers in pursuit. The explosions of at least half a dozen further stun grenades
could be heard in the ensuing seconds. Minutes later, the police pushed and herded the students up
Darling Street, and towards Cape Town train station. Among them was the limping
figure of Bunzi Akhona, a schoolgirl whose tracksuit bottoms had been ripped
open by the force of a stun grenade explosion. She told GroundUp that she was
seated in the front line, and that the first grenade landed in her lap. This sudden show of force brought to an end an hour-long
standoff between police and schoolchildren outside the provincial education
department's offices at Grand Central Towers in the city centre. No school buildings or sports fields Pupil leader Athule Baba, 18, said that 600 students at
Philippi High School had no school building or sport fields. Their classrooms
consist of shipping containers and there are no flush toilets, the matric pupil
said. The school has to "borrow" a hall from a nearby primary school
to write exams. "It becomes so unbearably hot in those containers, and
in winter we almost freeze to death," Baba said, minutes before the
violent action by police. "We have raised this issue before, but were ignored by
the department. Our teachers support us, but they cannot be open about this
because they are employees of the department and fear for their jobs. We are
not employees, we are pupils trying our best to get good results. Under the
current circumstances, it is impossible. So today, we decided to march for our
right to education." Baba held up a letter outlining these and other grievances.
She was waiting for an official from the department to meet with her as the
pupil's representative. GroundUp sent queries to both the department and the police.
Neither had responded or confirmed receipt of these at the time of publication. Western Cape education department spokesperson Paddy Atwell
told News24 the pupils were demanding a new high school. "We are planning to build a new high school in the area,
but the problem is there is no land there, so we are looking into that." 'We were not a threat' By noon on Friday, police had herded the majority of
students onto trains at Cape Town station. Some of the injured were attended to
by Emergency Medical Services. “We feel like the government have neglected our rights and
also abused us,” Baba said, after the attack by police. “We were not carrying weapons or posing a threat. Instead of
hearing our grievances, they send the police against us. I am very disappointed
by how this system works.” - Full article: Police use stun grenades; injure and disperse
marching Philippi students 24.com encourages commentary submitted via MyNews24. Contributions of 200 words or more will be considered for publication.  