Grahamstown -The debate about a name change at Rhodes University
has not come up for debate, and as such will remain, Vice Chancellor Dr Sizwe
Mabizela has said. This week, students staged protests, asking questions
about the slow pace of transformation and inclusivity at Rhodes, City Press
reported. They also pressured the university’s management to consider
changing the name Rhodes, arguing that Cecil John Rhodes, after whom the
university was named, stood for racism, plundering, white supremacy,
colonialism, pillaging, dispossession and the deliberate oppression of black
people. The protests culminated in a meeting between students and
management last night. Speaking to City Press on Friday, Mabizela said: “I have
a view on the matter of name change. I have, however, assiduously and
steadfastly refused to publicly declare my position on the question of the name
of our university.  The reason is quite simple: given my position as the
VC of Rhodes, if I were to publicly declare my position, that would be
disrespectful of our council, senate and other constituencies. It would
undermine any democratic process to resolve the name issue, should such process
be set in motion, as my position would be seen as partisan.  Should the
decision be that we engage in a process of consultation I wouldn’t like that
process to be not clouded by my publicly declared position,” he said. Of Thursday meeting, which lasted for more than four
hours, Mabizela said: “It was a wonderful student forum. The students raised
pertinent issues relating to the name change issue and transformation.” While the student profile of Rhodes does reflect the
demographics of the country, the university remains one of the least
transformed in the country. Out of about 57 full-time professors, only seven
are black. None of the university’s eight deans is black. The university, he said, was dealing with issues of
transformation. Mabizela said while he felt that Rhodes should not be
celebrated, it was equally important not to pretend that a pre-1994 South
Africa did not exist. “We haven’t given careful consideration about how to deal
with our past. We must reconcile ourselves with our sorry past and move on.” UCT debate The debate about transformation at Rhodes spilt over from
the University of Cape Town (UCT). Two weeks ago students tossed excrement at
the statue of Cecil John Rhodes located at the foot of the Jameson Steps, and
argued that it should be destroyed because it reminds them of Rhodes’ racist
past. Dr Max Price, UCT’s vice chancellor, asked the
university’s council to convene an urgent meeting to discuss the future of the
statue. On Thursday he told City Press that his personal opinion was that the
statue should not be destroyed but should be moved to a different place at the
campus. Currently, he said, the statue is displayed in a
prominent position, which gives the impression that Rhodes was a hero and that
the institution admired him. “We actually don’t,” he said. “The statue was erected to
honour him and to show appreciation because he actually gave us the piece of
land where this institution is. At that time he was thought to have been a
great leader, but now … “He saw it as his mission to extend the British Empire
and civilise people in Africa. But today, we can say that he was clearly
racist. He didn’t hesitate to kill people. So people feel that symbols like
these remind them of conquests and how their land was stolen and how they were
oppressed.” As much as the university was transforming, Price said it
had no plans to change its name. » This article was
updated since first published