( Isik Mater    via Twitter) 
	        Multimedia    ·   User Galleries   ·   News in Pictures
	        Send us your pictures   ·  Send us your stories
	     Johannesburg - Visible from almost anywhere in
Johannesburg, the 54-storey Ponte Tower is reputed to be the tallest
residential building in Africa. The distinctive circular tower was once a
symbol of this city's modernism, then its decay and now its struggle for
regeneration. The building's architects placed the striking glass and
concrete tube on Johannesburg's Hillbrow ridge in 1975 when the city was
striving to show that, despite racist policies, it could rival the world's
major metropolises. After apartheid, Johannesburg's downtown became eroded by
crime and neglect and so did the Ponte Tower.  Following a number of attempts to reclaim the building's
glory, a new strategy focusing on security, rather than luxury, is restoring
confidence in the building. On a Saturday morning, about a dozen tourists gather in
the ground floor courtyard, eager for a look inside the once notorious 167m
tall skyscraper. "My memory of the building was that it was a really
dangerous place to go to," said Christine Louw, a Dutch immigrant who
lived in South Africa during the building's rise and fall. The tour is led by Nickolaus Bauer, a journalist and
resident of the building since 2012, who has become an advocate for the tower's
renaissance.  He guides visitors from Europe, the United States and
South Africa to the top floor and down to its hollow core. As part of the tour,
Bauer shares the sweeping view from his own apartment. "Where else am I going to wake up and have the whole
city laid out before me," he said, boasting that on a clear day he can see
Pretoria, nearly 60km away. He pays about R6 635 per month for a two-bedroom flat.   Inner-city living The tower's Hillbrow neighbourhood is crime-ridden and Bauer
admits that he rarely wanders around at night.  While pockets of Johannesburg's inner-city have been
cleaned up by gentrification, Hillbrow has not. It is densely populated, with
many immigrants from other African countries as well as from rural towns, and
its streets are teeming and chaotic. Bauer is nostalgic for the building's past when he could
have enjoyed Hillbrow in its heyday, when residents sipped espresso while
playing backgammon in one of the country’s first gay-friendly areas. Then, the Ponte Tower featured three-storey flats, which
sometimes boasted saunas and carpeted walls, chic at the time.  The tower and Hillbrow attracted international residents
and inter-racial relationships were common, although illegal under apartheid. The regime responded by cutting off basic services to
Hillbrow, and as the neighbourhood deteriorated, so did the Ponte Tower, which
became known as a vertical slum. Gangs took over the building, stripped the 11th and 12th
floors and turned them into a circular brothel and drug den.  An unknown number of people committed suicide by leaping
down the building's hollow centre, according to the Sapa. "Although it had a bit of a trying past, bricks and
mortar wise it was still a solid structure," said Jason Kruger, spokesperson
for the Kempston group.    Refurbishment
process Kempston, a trucking company, bought the building in the
early 1990s, and began a two decade-long refurbishment process.  Initially, the vision was to return the building to its
70s-era glory, but now the group is focusing on basic security, aiming to
attract "happy families”. Ria and Jaap Breedt "manage the building with an
iron fist with a very thinly veiled glove," said resident Bauer. Ria Breedt, 64, who monitors the security screens from
her ground floor office, regularly conducts surprise inspections in the
apartments and demands that all overnight visitors are registered. Johannesburg's
centre is a hub for immigrants, both illegal and documented, and Breedt insists
that foreigners provide proof that they have a visa and makes a note of each
document's expiration date. "That is what the people are looking for, that their
children are protected and even they are protected," says Breedt. When the
Breedts began managing the tower in June 2009, only 79 out of nearly 494 units
were occupied. Now the building has a waiting list. Desire Seko moved into the Ponte Tower in 2011 and shares
a three-bedroom flat with another single man, and a young couple with two
children.  Seko, 24, moved to Johannesburg in 2006 from a rural
village, eager to be a photographer. At first he squatted in some of the city's
crumbling apartment blocks but now he has begun to build a life, with the
renewed order of Ponte Tower as a foundation. "It's strict, but I can't move out," he said,
saying that he has found a community within Ponte Tower's walls.  Seko runs a
photography studio on the ground floor, where a supermarket, a hairdresser and
a restaurant have also set up shop, confident that they are safe within the confines
of the tower.  Next, he plans to rent a studio apartment of his own and
is already on the waiting list.  For Seko, Ponte Tower is a symbol of success in the big
city. 24.com encourages commentary submitted via MyNews24. Contributions of 200 words or more will be considered for publication.  