(File) (Shutterstock) 
	        Multimedia    ·   User Galleries   ·   News in Pictures
	        Send us your pictures   ·  Send us your stories
	     Johannesburg - Firearms said to have been destroyed by Gauteng police have been found in the possession of gangsters in the Western Cape, affidavits before the South Gauteng High Court have revealed. Ballistics tests showed that weapons found by Western Cape police in the hands of gangsters in the province had come from the Gauteng firearms and liquor control unit, The Star reported on Monday. Some of the weapons had their serial numbers erased. The revelation was made in a Johannesburg court case concerning a firearms collector who wanted search warrants against him overturned. It emerged that a Germiston police officer, Colonel Chris Prinsloo, with 35 years’ experience was arrested in January. Prinsloo, who was in charge of the firearms safe, had allegedly taken heavy boxes from a safe and taken them to his house in Vereeniging. The police officer was said to have sold weapons to gangsters in the Western Cape and was found with R100 000 in cash at the time of his arrest. In June last year, the Sunday Times had reported that three police officers from the Central Firearms Registry in Pretoria were taken into custody while three Capetonians - including 28s gang kingpin Ralph Stanfield, his girlfriend and his sister. The arrests followed a lengthy investigation by members of the Western Cape police’s Operation Combat – a unit aimed at cracking down on gang-related crime. In January, DA parliamentary leader Mmusi Maimane called for specialised police units dealing with drugs and gangs need to be reintroduced, Sapa reported. "In order to fight crime we need to bring back special units to fight gangsterism and drugs," he told residents in Riverlea, south-west of Johannesburg, on Saturday. "Since special units were disbanded in 2004, drug-related crime has more than doubled." 24.com encourages commentary submitted via MyNews24. Contributions of 200 words or more will be considered for publication.  