Barbara Maregele, GroundUp (Riaan Manser, Twitter) Multimedia    ·   User Galleries   ·   News in Pictures
	        Send us your pictures   ·  Send us your stories On 1 March 2015, fires began to roar across the Cape Town south peninsula. Starting in Muizenberg, the fire spread rapidly to surrounding areas. Click through our timeline to explore how the fire has grown.VIEW Cape Town – As the fires in Cape Town have been
extinguished, GroundUp spoke to one firefighter during the time that left most
of the South Peninsula in ashes. It's 05:30 in Town
Two, Khayelitsha, and firefighter Anelisa Flani has just started her day. Flani
was one of nearly 400 Working on Fire crew members, who, along with hundreds of
Fire and Rescue firefighters and other volunteers, helped douse one of the
largest veld fires ever to rage across the slopes of Cape Town’s mountains. Several veld fires broke out on the Southern Peninsula on
Sunday, 1 March, and spread rapidly. Since then, thousands of hectares of
vegetation have burnt and 13 properties, collectively worth millions, were
damaged, with three structures completely gutted. By late Thursday, officials said that it could still take
days before the fire was completely extinguished. On Thursday, 5 March,  GroundUp followed 22-year-old Flani to the
Working on Fire base in Newlands as efforts to contain the massive blaze
entered their fifth day. Flani, who lives in a two-bedroom house with her
mother, Bukiwe Flani, and her 18-month-old daughter, Nikita, joined the
government initiated programme in September last year. The programme, which
focuses on wild fires, was established in 2003 to create jobs in a bid to
alleviate poverty. “I didn't finish Grade 12, so I was just sitting at home.
A girl from my community told me about Working on Fire, so I applied and got
in. Our training was very hard; we had to do sprints, push ups, and learn how
to deal with veld and fynbos fires,” she says. In order to get baby Nikita ready and to prepare for
work, Flani has to wash herself and her daughter in a large plastic bucket
filled with hot water which she places in her room. A few steps away, several yellow and green tops and
jackets are hanging from an indoor makeshift washing line. “I only have two sets of uniforms. I have to wash it
every night, because I've been smelling like smoke and very dirty. I didn't
even come home on Wednesday night, so I was in that uniform for two days. It
wasn't nice,” she explains. Before leaving the house, Flani's mother, who works as a
cleaner in an old age village in Somerset West, told GroundUp she fears for her
daughter's safety every day. “I see on the news how risky her work is. Sometimes we
had no contact because her phone was off and I didn't know if she was safe. She
also has a baby to worry about. But, I'm very proud of her,” she says. After
shining her boots and packing two small bags, Flani wraps Nikita in a blanket
and carries her to daycare in a house three streets away. Flani briefly
described her week, which included her first experience in a helicopter. “The first fire call was in Hout Bay, and we had to go in
with the chopper. I didn't want to go at first, but we had no choice because
there was no way for us to claim the mountain at that stage. I was shaking. The
fire then spread to Fish Hoek. I joined the team again on Monday and stayed at
work until Wednesday afternoon. “On Tuesday, there was a time we couldn't do anything and
we just had to watch the flames. We felt so helpless,” she says. ‘It's a scary fire
and so dangerous’ During fire season which ends at the end of April, Flani,
receives R86 a day and works seven days a week from 09:00 until 18:00. Out of
fire season she receives R1 800 a month. “I've fought other fires, but nothing like this. It's a
scary fire and so dangerous. I could feel the flames, it was so hot and we
[are] sweating all the time. Our uniforms with the T-shirt, jacket, balaclava,
helmet and safety boots, all of this is very heavy, but I love what I do. The
money I get helps my mother to pay for things at home,” she says. Flani catches a 07:00 bus to Newlands and walks up to the
base where she reports for duty at 09:00. Exhausted, Flani fell asleep during
the trip to work. “It's difficult living so far away and having to travel into
work every day when you are tired. I get up at 05:30 in order to get my baby
ready before I have to take a bus to work. I work seven days a week from 09:00
to 18:00. The worst part is going from here to those big houses up there. “It does become scary out there when the fire gets bigger
and out of control,” she says. At the Newlands base, Flani is assigned to a
crew leaving for Tokai Forest. “I love what I do. We are under a lot of pressure most of
the time, but it feels good to know that you are helping to stop this big fire
and save people's homes from burning down,” she says. In a statement on Thursday, officials said, while the
fire was under control, firefighters would still be deployed to monitor
hotspots for flare-ups. One of the firefighters who sustained serious burn wounds
is recovering in hospital along with several others with minor injuries. 24.com encourages commentary submitted via MyNews24. Contributions of 200 words or more will be considered for publication.  