(Shutterstock) Multimedia &nbsp; &nbsp; User Galleries &nbsp; &nbsp; News in Pictures Send us your pictures &nbsp; &nbsp; Send us your stories A Zimbabwean man has reportedly been dragged to court after he tried to rescue the country s official bird, which he had found at his home unable to fly.News24 CorrespondentHarare &ndash; Zimbabwe&rsquo;s new power cuts are so severe that one local resident has joked she is losing weight because of it. "The Zesa Weight Loss Programme is the most result-showing weight loss programme on the planet. I have not been able to cook for days now and you are absolutely right, I am load-shedding!" wrote resident, Lisa Fulton, in a post that was shared on Facebook community, 'What's up Harare'. Zesa is the Zimbabwe Electricity Supply Authority. The electricity distribution company warned against using jacuzzis.&nbsp;"Domestic geysers, swimming pool pumps and jacuzzis should be switched off at peak times for more areas to have power," it said. After days of complaints by the public following a sudden increase in rolling blackouts, Zimbabwe's state power utility on Thursday finally published its new 'summer shedding programme'.According to the schedule, which took up two pages in the state-owned Herald newspaper, many suburbs of the capital Harare and beyond would have cuts every day, some of them lasting for 18 hours."The level and duration of load-shedding may go beyond the advertised schedules," warned the state-run Zimbabwe Electricity Transmission and Distribution Company, a Zesa subsidiary.Authorities blamed the intensification of power cuts on low water levels at Lake Kariba, limited power imports, and low generation at the main Hwange power station.Harare&rsquo;s Belgravia suburb, where some embassies are located, would have power cuts on Mondays, Wednesdays, Fridays and Sundays from 04:00 to 22:00. It would have no power on Tuesdays, Thursdays and Saturdays from 04:00 to 13:00. Many other suburbs and cities were similarly affected. 24.com encourages commentary submitted via MyNews24. Contributions of 200 words or more will be considered for publication.