Jenna Etheridge, News24 Jurie Roux (Felix Dlangamandla) Multimedia    ·   User Galleries   ·   News in Pictures
	        Send us your pictures   ·  Send us your stories Cape Town - The University of Stellenbosch was on Tuesday ordered to hand over to Beeld newspaper a preliminary forensic report into alleged financial mismanagement implicating SA Rugby Union CEO Jurie Roux. Western Cape High Court Judge Owen Rogers ordered that the KPMG report be provided within 14 days. The newspaper had brought an application in terms of the Promotion of Access to Information Act (PAIA). Roux was the university's financial director between 2002 and 2010. He was also treasurer, and later chairperson, of the university’s rugby club. According to Netwerk24, he was accused of transferring R35m without authorisation from the university’s reserve funds to various cost centres to which the Maties rugby club had access. Roux had intervened in the newspaper’s application, arguing that the report was protected from disclosure because of litigation privilege. But Rogers said in his judgment on Tuesday that the privilege existed solely for the benefit of the university. “"The only reason that the report has not yet been handed over is that Roux claims a right to assert that the University is not obliged to hand over the report. I do not think he has any such right," the judge stated. According to Roux's heads of argument, he believed he may be harmed if the report’s untested allegations, which he had not been given the opportunity to refute, were released. "All of the expenditure in issue represented legitimate and appropriately authorised expenses, all of which the university is liable for, and all of which was in the interests of the university," his heads of argument stated. "In particular, Mr Roux did not derive any improper benefit from such funding." The draft forensic report was handed over to an independent external attorney firm for legal opinion and recommendations.The university subsequently launched a claim for damages from him. Last year, Roux’s contract with Saru was extended for five years.    24.com encourages commentary submitted via MyNews24. Contributions of 200 words or more will be considered for publication.