Sizwe sama Yende The newly established University of Mpumalanga and the Tshwane 
University of Technology have signed a partnership agreement to share skills and 
resources. The two institutions aim to identify gaps where they can 
collaborate in the areas of teaching and learning, research, innovation and 
community projects for the socioeconomic development of communities. UMP vice-chancellor, Professor Thoko Mayekiso, and her TUT 
counterpart, Professor Lourens van Staden, signed a memorandum of agreement 
yesterday that will shortly be followed by the formation of a steering committee 
to take the process forward. Both institutions will recognise and give students credits for 
their respective programmes. Mayekiso said: “We do not want to reinvent the wheel but want to 
work with old institutions. We’re a comprehensive institution and we can both 
offer an information communication technology higher certificate, for example. 
We offer a tourism diploma but their focus is on eco-tourism so we can have that 
partnership to assist students to complement their qualifications.” Van Staden said the institutions would together be able to design a 
curriculum that is relevant to the Mpumalanga provincial growth development plan 
because they could complement each other. “A university should be responsive to the societal needs, so the 
first step will be to do an analysis. We’ll identify gaps and have joint 
programmes and see how we can have synergy in tourism for example,” he 
said. “This partnership will optimise opportunities and since these 
institutions do not overlap we will fill the gaps in-between,” Van Staden 
added. UMP opened its doors last year. It is one of two universities 
established by the democratic government. The other one was the Sol Plaatjie 
University in the Northern Cape. UMP has 828 students enrolled for agricultural bachelor degrees and 
diplomas, hospitality management, information communication technology and 
education (foundation phase teaching) this year. Next year, the university would introduce a bachelor of commerce 
(development studies), bachelor of science in agriculture, bachelor of science, 
advanced diploma in agriculture, bachelor in tourism and heritage studies and a 
conservation diploma. 24.com encourages commentary submitted via MyNews24. Contributions of 200 words or more will be considered for publication.  