(Shutterstock) Multimedia &nbsp; &nbsp; User Galleries &nbsp; &nbsp; News in Pictures Send us your pictures &nbsp; &nbsp; Send us your stories Johannesburg - A Johannesburg primary school's principal has taken to Facebook to respond to a bullying video that has gone viral."We mourn the unfortunate incident that happened between Grade 7 pupils at our school," wrote principal LA Haupt on Laerskool Randfontein's Facebook&nbsp;page on Friday evening."This incident was recorded and distributed in the media. Everyone who was involved has been identified and disciplinary hearings have already been scheduled for next week. "Be assured that every child's safety is our first priority and that the necessary steps will be taken against the guilty parties." The Rekord&nbsp;community newspaper reported on Saturday that the Grade 7 boy's aunt had posted the video on YouTube. The video shows the boy being lured onto the school playground by one boy, and then the assault starts by a group of boys. Apparently some boys try to help, but the one bully repeatedly shouts, "Los! Nee... los!" (leave it, no, leave it).&nbsp;The victim crouches on the ground and tries to protect his head with his hands, as his perpetrators groan in pleasure. &nbsp;He then gets up and tries to walk away but he is held back and punched again. Apparently, other boys again try to help, to which the bully shouts in Afrikaans, "julle moenie inspring nie" (you must not jump in [to help]) and again later he warns, "niemand fokken spring in nie" (nobody fucking jumps in [to help]).The principal's Facebook update had been shared more than 60 times by Sunday afternoon, and had dozens of comments, one of them saying the video had been shared in other countries. Some&nbsp;of those commenting say school prefects were standing around and watching when it happened.Last week, another school violence video emerged - also from a school in Randfontein, west of Johannesburg, but this was from the Randfontein Secondary School, where a teacher was shown hitting a Grade 9 learner with a leather belt, reported EWN.24.com encourages commentary submitted via MyNews24. Contributions of 200 words or more will be considered for publication.