Jeff Wicks, News24 Senzo Meyiwa (File: AP) Multimedia    ·   User Galleries   ·   News in Pictures
	        Send us your pictures   ·  Send us your stories Durban - Sam Meyiwa, father of slain Bafana Bafana captain Senzo Meyiwa, described the resignation of a key police investigator from the team probing his son's murder as "something fishy". "There is something fishy going on with this whole thing. No one even told me about this. Something is not right, because next month it will be a year since he [Senzo Meyiwa] was murdered and still nothing is happening in the case," he said. He would not comment further, saying only that police had asked him to stay mum. "They say when I talk to the media it hampers them, that is all I can say," he said. Police top brass have rubbished claims the officer “quit the team” after a recommendation to arrest singer Kelly Khumalo was ignored. Meyiwa, who was captain of the national football team, was shot and killed in his girlfriend’s Vosloorus home in October 2014. Death threats Almost a year later, police appear no closer to finding his killer. Against this backdrop, the Sunday World reported that Captain Joyce Buthelezi is understood to have recommended that all those present in the house at the time, including Khumalo, be arrested on charges of defeating the ends of justice and perjury. The paper also reported Buthelezi received death threats after her resignation from the team. Police spokesperson Solomon Makgale described the contents of the newspaper reports as “false”. “Captain Buthelezi was incorporated into the team due to her specialist skills. She was not carrying the docket.” “Just like any other team member, she was assigned specific tasks and must provide specialist input as and when required. Furthermore, contrary to media reports, there is no committee to which the investigating team reports,” he said. “This murder investigation remains a priority. The investigating team is focused and determined to find those who killed Senzo Meyiwa,” Makgale added. 24.com encourages commentary submitted via MyNews24. Contributions of 200 words or more will be considered for publication.  