The Egyptian Antiquities Ministry restored the courtyard in front of the Sphinx and the pyramid of King Khafre as part of their project to preserve Egypt s heritage and promote tourism to the country. (Mohamed El-Shaheed, AFP) Multimedia &nbsp; &nbsp; User Galleries &nbsp; &nbsp; News in Pictures Send us your pictures &nbsp; &nbsp; Send us your stories Cairo - Two Al Jazeera journalists were released from prison on Wednesday following a pardon from Egyptian President Abdel-Fattah al-Sissi, in a case that drew worldwide condemnation. Canadian-Egyptian Al Jazeera&nbsp;journalist Mohammed Fahmy and the Qatari network's Egyptian producer Baher Mohammed were among 100 prisoners - including pro-democracy activists - who were pardoned, according to a presidential statement. "Fahmy is now&nbsp;at home. His colleague Baher Mohammed has also left the prison accompanied by his family," Fahmy's wife, Marwa Omara, told dpa. The pardons, marking the Islamic holiday of Eid al-Adha, are the first to include prominent figures caught up in Egypt's crackdown on dissent since al-Sissi, then head of the armed forces, ousted Islamist president Mohammed Morsi two years ago. They were issued ahead of al-Sissi's visit to New York to attend the UN General Assembly meetings. Fahmy, Mohammed and Australian journalist Peter Greste were arrested in late 2013 and charged with publishing false news and collaborating with Morsi's Muslim Brotherhood, which has been banned as a terrorist organization. They were sentenced to seven years imprisonment on those charges in an initial trial last year. Observers at the trial said that no concrete evidence in support of the allegations had been heard in court sessions open to the press. The convictions were overturned on appeal and the journalists were jailed for three years after a retrial that concluded last month. Greste was released and deported on al-Sissi's orders in February before the retrial started. Embarrassed Egyptian authoritiesFahmy gave up his Egyptian citizenship in order to qualify for deportation like Greste, saying a senior security official had urged him to do so to save the country embarrassment, but was not released. Human rights organizations and press freedom groups had called for the release of the journalists. The case clearly embarrassed Egyptian authorities, with al-Sissi publicly saying that it would have been better if the journalists had been deported instead of being put on trial. Interior Ministry spokesman Abu Bakr Abdul Kareem said the other prisoners, including 16 women, will be released "within hours." The presidency said the pardons&nbsp;came "in the framework of the president's initiative to release groups of young people, which he launched in December last year." Thousands of people, mainly suspected Islamists but also including young democracy activists, have been jailed since Morsi's toppling in the wake of mass protests against his increasingly unpopular rule. Most have been accused of illegal demonstrations, membership of illegal organizations, or participation in riots and deadly attacks on security forces. According to data compiled by activists from the Egyptian Centre for Economic and Social Rights, some 41,000 people were detained or prosecuted between the fall of Morsi and May 2014. Among those to be freed are two prominent young female activists, Sanaa Seif and Yara Salam, who were jailed last year under a law that effectively bans protests without prior police approval. The pardons also come less than a month before the start of Egypt's parliamentary elections, which the government says mark the final stage in a process of restoring democracy after alleged abuses under Morsi's one-year rule. April 6 Youth MovementIt is far from clear that they herald an end to the government's stern measures against dissidents. On Tuesday evening, the April 6 Youth Movement, which played a key role in the 2011 revolution against long-time dictator Hosny Mubarak, said its co-ordinator Amr Ali had been arrested. Sanaa Seif's sister Mona, writing on her Facebook page, condemned the government despite the releases. "For 100 or 200 people to go free while the jails are full of thousands of victims of injustice, some of them children ... this is not justice," she wrote. A third sibling, prominent pro-democracy activist and blogger Alaa Abdel-Fattah, is currently serving a five-year sentence for another protest. Their father, veteran human rights lawyer Ahmed Seif al-Islam, died last year while both Alaa and Sanaa were in jail.24.com encourages commentary submitted via MyNews24. Contributions of 200 words or more will be considered for publication.