Naledi Shange, News24 Multimedia    ·   User Galleries   ·   News in Pictures
	        Send us your pictures   ·  Send us your stories Johannesburg - The woman who was knocked down and dragged
beneath a taxi for almost a kilometre in Lonehill, Johannesburg on Friday said
she believed the taxi driver intentionally hurt her. "I know he did what he did on purpose and I think he
should be punished for it," Kim McCusker told News24. She was speaking outside the Randburg Magistrate's Court
where taxi driver Matome Thamage had just testified on what happened on the day
of the incident in September 2011. Asked what she thought would be a reasonable punishment
for Thamage if he were to be found guilty, McCusker said:  "I don't
know in terms of sentencing, [but] he should get to spend some time in jail and
not just get a suspended sentence." The case against Thamage had dragged on for over three
years and McCusker said she wished it could have been over by now. She said there had been several reasons for the
delays. "I can't remember all the reasons but it was stuff
like; they didn't have the docket, then the magistrate that started hearing the
matter retired, then the one day there was no stenographer here and it just
kept getting postponed and postponed and postponed," she said. Thamage had also since changed lawyers since the
proceedings began. Representing him in court on Friday was Lulama
Mqongosi. McCusker said was, however, happy that the matter was to
be drawing to an end. The defence was expected to call one more witness to the
stand once the State completed its cross-examination of Thamage. Thamage spent most of the day in the dock where he
testified in Sepedi. Reckless and
negligent Through an interpreter, he told the court that he had
been reckless and negligent as he drove that day but he did not see McCusker
under his car. "I drove negligently as I approached a stop
sign," Thamaga said through an interpreter. He explained that he had been in a right turn lane only
when he suddenly decided to change lanes and move to the left lane which only
permitted vehicles to continue straight. "The white man put on his brakes. I had no way of
avoiding him. I scratched his vehicle slightly," said Thamage.He said he had not been speeding. "I put on my brakes and he got out of his car and
approached me. I thought he was coming to talk to me so I opened my window
slightly. "He punched the window and broke it. He then
throttled me," said Thamage. "There was no conversation between us. He grabbed my
neck for a long time to the extent that the vehicle descended down the road and
ended on a pavement. The engine of my car had still been running." Thamage said when the man, who was at the time McCusker's
fiancé, Lourens Grobler, let go of his throat, he reversed his car and then
drove off with McCusker stuck underneath his vehicle. Thamage was on trial for seven charges. These included
attempted murder, reckless and negligent driving, driving without a licence,
driving a taxi without a permit, failing to stop to ascertain the damage caused
during an accident, another for failing to ascertain the injuries sustained by
an accident victim and failure to stop immediately at an accident scene. He has agreed he was reckless and negligent behind the
wheel and also admitted to driving without a permit. He has however, pleaded not guilty to the other
charges. Passengers on-board He told the court that as he drove off with McCusker
under his taxi, he saw other cars hooting and flashing behind him. "I thought these people were hooting because they
were perhaps friends with the white man who had strangled me," Thamage
said. He eventually stopped after being flagged down by some
security guards. The single remaining passenger had also wanted to get off. "After stopping the car at the bus stop, the
security guards came to me and told me there was someone beneath my car. "I got out of the taxi and we looked at the woman.
Together with them, we picked up the vehicle and took her out." Prosecutor Sam Manning on Friday said Thamage's version
of events were improbable. "Since Mr Grobler had let go off you and was walking
away, there was no imminent danger. There was no reason for you to reverse and
speed off from the scene," Manning said. She criticised Thamage for having had driven his taxi for
three years without a permit. "It was a mistake," Thamage responded. "A mistake that you made every day for 365 days for
three years?" Manning questioned. "I could not afford a permit," Thamage
replied. His case was postponed to May 19. He was still out on
bail. 24.com encourages commentary submitted via MyNews24. Contributions of 200 words or more will be considered for publication.  