Mpho Raborife, News24 Multimedia    ·   User Galleries   ·   News in Pictures
	        Send us your pictures   ·  Send us your stories Cape Town - Rescue workers have warned Easter weekend
holidaymakers to take extra caution after a Gauteng woman fell to her death
when she and her husband got lost on a hiking trip in the Overberg. "People should be requested to stay and not try to
climb up or down places where they wouldn't normally venture into without
experienced climbers and climbing gear," Wilderness Search and Rescue
(WSAR) spokesperson Johann Marais told News24. "Rather be safe and if you are in any way in doubt of
your position [on the mountain], call the provincial emergency number for
assistance." He said if anyone found themselves off the foot path and
lost, they should call for assistance rather than taking matters into their own
hands. Greyton hiker death This warning was followed by the death of a 57-year-old
woman who was found on Abdul's Kop mountain in Greyton, Western Cape, on
Wednesday evening. Her body was found around 17:40 following a two-day search
by a team of about 15 to 20 rescuers, Marais said. She had gone on a mid-morning walk on the mountain with her
husband on Monday. As they were preparing return home, the couple lost track of
the foot path they were on and could not find their way back. "They must have taken a wrong turn," Marais said. The couple separated when the husband tried to find an
alternative way of getting off the mountain. "He managed to get down [to a lower level] safely but
told his wife it was too dangerous for her to come down. They carried on
walking in the same direction, but on different levels." Marais said the couple kept contact by calling out to each
other and using their cellphones. Fatal fall "At some point the husband fell and was unconscious for
some time. She then tried to go down the mountain to reach him, that is the
point where she fell and was fatally injured. When he came to, he found himself
on a ledge. When he tried to call his wife and couldn't reach her, he started
calling for help." Search and rescue teams were alerted and the man was found
on a ledge on Monday around 9pm, but could only be moved the following day at
day break. He was airlifted from the scene and told rescuers he could
not reach his wife. Her body was found in a crevice. The Cape Times named the couple as Mary and Billy Long, from
Gauteng.   24.com encourages commentary submitted via MyNews24. Contributions of 200 words or more will be considered for publication.