Naledi Shange(SAPS) Multimedia &nbsp; &nbsp; User Galleries &nbsp; &nbsp; News in Pictures Send us your pictures &nbsp; &nbsp; Send us your stories Port Elizabeth - Fifteen SA Police Service (SAPS) employees comprising of police officials, general workers and cleaners appeared in various Eastern Cape courts on charges of fraud and corruption on Thursday, the Hawks said. The accused are all linked to SAPS garages around the province and were alleged to have been stripping police vehicles and selling the parts to the public, said Brigadier Hangwani Mulaudzi. Constable Khangelani Victor Gqwabaza, 33, Sergeant Thobile Fani, 49, general worker Mongameli Goodman Gaqa, 37, and cleaner Sikhumbuzo Majola, 43, were attached to the Mthatha SAPS garage. They appeared in the Mthatha Magistrate's Court. Their case was postponed to June 2 for further investigation. They were released on R2 000 bail each. Three other accused, Sabelo Mahobe, 28, Dingiso Shadrack Maqethuka, 54, and Ganumthetho Skey, 47, were attached to the Queenstown SAPS garage. "[They] appeared before the Queenstown Magistrate&rsquo;s Court where they were released on R1 000 bail each. They will be in the dock again on May 25 2015," said Mulaudzi. The Port Elizabeth Magistrate&rsquo;s Court granted a R500 bail each to Warrant Officer Siyakudumisa Mfazwe, 33, Constable Sydney Siyabulela Situnda, 36, and 49-year-old Sergeant Dumalisile Ndingane. They were all employees at Forest Hill Saps Garage and will make their next court appearance on May 17 2015. Meanwhile, Monwabisi Zicina, 35, Sphiwo Qukani, 52, Fezile Mhlekwa, 36, Mziyanda Magwevana, 42, and Zola Humphrey Antonie, 33, appeared in the Zwelitsha Magistrate&rsquo;s Court. They were granted R5 000 bail. "Their case was postponed to May 6 2015," said Mulaudzi. Hawks acting heard Major General Mthandazo Ntlemeza said he was disappointed by the police officials involvement in the crimes. "We are saddened to name and shame our own members but to show that we are serious about rooting out corruption and all forms of criminality within the service and the country at large, charity had to begin at home," he said. "We hope the arrests of these officers will send a stern warning to others and serve as a lesson that the Hawks&rsquo; claws are out to pounce on anyone who is found to be on the wrong side of the law."24.com encourages commentary submitted via MyNews24. Contributions of 200 words or more will be considered for publication.