Jenna Etheridge Multimedia    ·   User Galleries   ·   News in Pictures
	        Send us your pictures   ·  Send us your stories Cape Town - Some Manenberg residents in Cape Town braved gangs shooting at each other in the street to attend Easter church services on Sunday. A 40-year-old woman living in the area, who did not want to be named because she feared for her safety, told News24 that some people felt a bit safer because the police had picked up key gang members off the street on Saturday night. “Much of the leaders are being locked down at Manenberg police station. Whoever was found on the street was taken in,” she said, adding that many people had braved walking to church as a result. “Some innocent people, just normal people, were also picked up last night.” She said the gangs fired at each other throughout Saturday night and until 07:00 on Sunday morning. Shots went out again between 09:00 and 10:00 on Sunday. Earlier, police spokesperson Andre Traut said a man was shot in the area on Sunday morning by an unknown person who fled the scene. A case of attempted murder was being investigated, as well as three other attempted murders following gang violence in the area on Saturday. “... although progress is being made with our investigations, no one has been arrested in connection with yesterday’s [Saturday] and this morning’s [Sunday] attempted murder cases in Manenberg,” Traut said. He did not confirm that people were being held at the police station. The resident said the shooting started on Friday night when a peace deal between the Americans and the Hard Livings gang faltered after a gambling game went foul. She said two gang members were injured and one, from the Hard Livings gang, was killed. Traut on Sunday said police had one shooting on record from Friday. Residents were apparently planning to march through the streets on Monday in protest against gangsterism. 24.com encourages commentary submitted via MyNews24. Contributions of 200 words or more will be considered for publication.  