Multimedia &nbsp; &nbsp; User Galleries &nbsp; &nbsp; News in Pictures Send us your pictures &nbsp; &nbsp; Send us your stories Rapper AKA is notoriously private about his relationship with Ntombezinhle DJ Zinhle Jiyane, but he happily told City Press this week that he s dating the love of his life.It was a good week for AKA, whose real name is Kiernan Forbes.He picked up six nominations for the Metro FM Music Awards and will go head-to-head with Cassper Nyovest, with whom he had a public feud last year.The two have buried the hatchet and, when asked about it, Forbes said: That s old news. But don t expect the pair to hit the recording studio together. I don t think I ll do any collaborations with Cassper Nyovest any time soon, Forbes told City Press during an interview at a Joburg restaurant.He has a reputation for being high-maintenance and a bit of a diva, but in person Forbes is down-to-earth and humble.Is he a changed man? I m a better person than I was a year ago. I m more refined and calculated. I pick my moments better now. Although he s often outspoken on social networks, Forbes is discreet about his love life.Recently, though, he and Jiyane jetted off to Mauritius on a holiday.Each posted photographs of themselves on theirInstagram accounts but their matching attire hinted once again at their long-term relationship. It was a proper holiday after such a long time. It was good to recharge myself and not to take photos with people for a week, said Forbes. It was a fascinating and an interesting holiday. But the 26-year-old rapper politely declined again to name his partner, saying only that he s in love with an entertainer who is also a businesswoman. We ll start a family when the time is right. Life is a journey, he said.His professional journey is going well. Accumulatively Forbes reckons he s made his millions. I ve done well for myself. I have a clothing label called Head Honcho x AKA. I have created jobs for many people, including my mother. She s working for me. He s one of South Africa s most successful hip-hop artists. According to South African standards, I would say I ve arrived. But to me, I m not even halfway to where I want to be in my career. I believe there s so much more to come from me. I would like to think of myself as a pioneer and someone who has opened doors for new hip-hop artists. It s also been part of his journey to prove to himself that he s not a fly-by-night . I m here to stay for many years, said Forbes.24.com encourages commentary submitted via MyNews24. Contributions of 200 words or more will be considered for publication.