Ahmed Areff, News24 (Ronelle Wessels, Facebook) Multimedia    ·   User Galleries   ·   News in Pictures
	        Send us your pictures   ·  Send us your stories Cape Town - As residents of Struisbaai in the Western Cape pondered the mystery of a VW Touareg buried in sand and water on their beach, it has emerged that the driver merely wanted to test his "4x4 capabilities". Police said hikers on the Struisbaai Plaat came across the vehicle buried in the sand. They then traced the vehicle and informed the driver's parents. The turbocharged direct injection (TDI) version of the vehicle can cost anywhere between R800 000 and R1m. - Wheels24: New Touareg arrives in SA "The owner reported at Struisbaai SAPS, informing them that he had wanted to test the vehicle's 4x4 capabilities on the Plaat. "At the water's edge, the vehicle's electronic box got wet, causing the vehicle to seize. The owner abandoned the vehicle, and had to wait till day to arrange a tow. No foul play occurred and no cases were opened." Pictures and video of the vehicle emerged on social media on Wednesday. Facebook user Ronelle Wessels said on her page on Wednesday: "Went for a walk this morning on the beach and saw this car in the sea. No one in sight!" Her pictures show the vehicle buried almost up to its windows in beach sand, and surrounded by water.  Holiday accommodation and real estate company Southern Staying tweeted on Wednesday: "Breaking News: This guy landed in deep waters off Struisbaai Plaat Beach or was unhappy with his VW emission results." The joke was in reference to the recent controversy around VW and how some of its vehicles "cheated" emissions tests. Local resident Johan van Zyl, told News24 that he saw the vehicle while walking down the beach on Wednesday. "I heard that they used three 4x4s to pull it out."   Breaking News: This guy landed in deep waters off Struisbaai Plaat Beach or was unhappy with his VW emission results pic.twitter.com/BSPV3FAMEt    24.com encourages commentary submitted via MyNews24. Contributions of 200 words or more will be considered for publication.