Johannesburg - A Dobsonville, Soweto, man has been sentenced to three years in jail after he was found guilty on 21 charges of animal cruelty, including repeatedly beating an elderly greyhound with a knobkierie, the National Society for the Prevention of Cruelty to Animals (NSPCA) said on Friday. The man had been caught on video, restraining a greyhound with a lead and beating it repeatedly with a knobkierie, Roodepoort SPCA's spokesperson Mandy Cattenach said. A witness from Dobsonville, Soweto, had witnessed the dogs being mistreated, took a video recording of the abuse and sent it to the Roodepoort SPCA. According to the witness, "the more the dog screamed in pain and terror, the more he beat the dog". Jabu Mtshali appeared at the Roodepoort Magistrate's Court last week Friday, and was found guilty of 21 charges of animal cruelty and sentenced to three years imprisonment, Cattenach said. After receiving the video, SPCA Roodepoort obtained a warrant to search Mtshali's home, accompanied by police officers. 'Lying soaked in the slush and barely alive' Upon arrival, SPCA officials found 21 emaciated dogs living in parasite-ridden enclosures. "A greyhound was chained at the entrance of the first enclosure, the chain only 90cm long," Cattenach said. "The dog was balancing on the side cement on three legs in an attempt to raise itself out of the slush." She said three adult greyhounds were found cowering at the back of the enclosure. "In an attempt to 'escape' from the humans, the dogs were crawling over each other trying to hide. "This is where the dog that had been beaten was found, lying soaked in the slush and barely alive." A second enclosure was found in a similar condition. "The second enclosure was no different, being swampy with excrement and with a dog on a short chain, plus greyhounds cowering at the back of the enclosure. "The only form of water was an old bucket with green slimy liquid in it." NSPCA hails verdict Two cross-breed dogs were also found on short chains. They had no shelter or water and were nursing puppies, Cattenach said. "The only shelter was an old kennel, which was filled with beer bottles." Cattenach said the puppies had been hiding in the rubble in the yard and screamed and defecated when they were picked up by SPCA officials. The chickens on the property were also confiscated, she said. Mtshali was arrested when he arrived home. Cattenach hailed the court's verdict and described it as appropriate. "The case is ample demonstration that the judicial system of our country can work well and that recognition is given to all forms of violence and abuse."