Naledi Shange, News24(iStock) Multimedia &nbsp; &nbsp; User Galleries &nbsp; &nbsp; News in Pictures Send us your pictures &nbsp; &nbsp; Send us your stories Johannesburg - Three of the four police officers arrested for allegedly shooting and killing suspected criminal, Khulekani Mpanza, in Krugersdorp in October will spend Christmas behind bars. The three officers - Constable Titus Mabele, Constable Jason Segole and Sergeant Puleng Sebetwa - walked into a packed courtroom on Wednesday, trying to cover their faces with hats and jackets. - Read more: Sapu plans to appeal Krugersdorp cops judgmentTheir colleague, Constable Dipuo Chipu, who was granted bail in earlier proceedings, walked from the court gallery to join them. She was dressed in a purple dress and floral jacket along with big brown glasses. As proceedings got underway, the prosecutor requested that the case be postponed to March as they were still awaiting the ballistic report in the matter. While the defence made no objection to the requested postponement, Magistrate Keith Page, who had last month denied the three officers bail, said that was too long a wait.&nbsp; "Three months is a very long time," he said, advising the legal teams to move the date to February. The case was eventually postponed to February 25. Page said the State should ensure it was ready to proceed when the case returned to court next year.ArrestThe three officers are charged with murder and defeating the ends of justice after allegedly being caught on camera killing Mpanza - a suspected robber.Chipu, who is the only female officer among the accused, was out on R5 000 bail. She only faced a charge of defeating the ends of justice.The officers were arrested after CCTV video footage showed the police chasing a gun-wielding Mpanza down the streets of Krugersdorp, west of Johannesburg. Mpanza was first seen firing at the police as he ran down the street, damaging one of their vehicles. One of the officers is seen firing a first shot which resulted in Mpanza falling to the ground and dropping his weapon.The footage then shows another officer kicking Mpanza, while another officer fires a second shot. - Read more: Don't make Krugersdorp cop case racial - IpidPrayersBefore proceedings began, a man addressed a large crowd of police officers in the courtroom. The man, who said he was an evangelist, said he and other churches were praying for the officers. He saluted them for the risky job they performed every day. "Greater is He who is in you, than He that is in the world," the evangelist told the officers before saying a prayer for them. "Amen!" the police officers replied. The evangelist then walked out of court with a big black bag in hand. Outside court, a handful of ANC Women's League members stood outside the court with placards. &lsquo;If the criminal had not died, they would have&rsquo;"The magistrate should reconsider and give these men bail. These are our children. They have families. They have wives and children," said Poppy Moalusi. "If that criminal had not died, it would have been one of the officers," said Dinah Nogikile. "If things continue like this, people will avoid signing up to be police officers and we will have a shortage of cops because the law doesn't protect them," she said. She said had the roles been reversed and Mpanza was in the dock, he would have most probably been granted bail. Meanwhile, there was a great police presence around the court. The area around the court had been cordoned off and police vehicles were parked nearby. 24.com encourages commentary submitted via MyNews24. Contributions of 200 words or more will be considered for publication.