Jenna Etheridge and Ahmed Areff, News24 Brenda Wardle and her daughter Inez (Jenna Etheridge, News24) 
	        Multimedia    ·   User Galleries   ·   News in Pictures
	        Send us your pictures   ·  Send us your stories
	     News24 Live brings you a blow-by-blow account of the Oscar Pistorius story, from the shooting of girlfriend Reeva Steenkamp on 13 February 2013, all the court proceedings and sentencing in between and up to the appeal judgement on 3 December 2015. Watch.WATCH Bloemfontein - At least two law students made their way to
Bloemfontein to hear whether the Supreme Court of Appeal (SCA) will overturn
the High Court's decision to convict Oscar Pistorius of culpable homicide. Legal analyst and law student Brenda Wardle was in court
with her 25-year-old daughter Inez. They drove from Johannesburg on Wednesday
night for the case.  Brenda Wardle told News24 she is busy with her Doctor of
Laws thesis at Unisa, titled "Presumption of Innocence and the Burden of
Proof in South African Criminal Procedure". She says Oscar's case falls "smack-bang" in the
middle of her research. She has also written a book on the case.  Her daughter says she willingly drove with her mom because
she is keen to find out what the verdict is. Two men who also drove from Johannesburg for the appeal
verdict are Unisa law student Musa Mahlangu, 38, and driver Xolile Joja, 28.  Mahlangu says he was at the court to learn about appeals in
greater detail. He was reluctant to say what he thought the outcome would be. "It could go either way." Joja said he was here because, "it is a highly
publicised case and I want to see the process". The SCA will hand down judgment on Thursday morning on
whether Pistorius's conviction for his model girlfriend's killing should be
culpable homicide or murder. If it is the latter, Pistorius, who is currently under
correctional supervision at his uncle's home in Pretoria, will possibly have to
go back to jail, and face a harsher sentence. Pistorius shot dead his girlfriend Reeva Steenkamp in 2013,
later stating he mistook her for an intruder. He fired four shots into the bathroom door of his Pretoria
home on Valentine’s Day. Meanwhile, journalists gathered outside his uncle Arnold's
home in Waterkloof, Pretoria. 24.com encourages commentary submitted via MyNews24. Contributions of 200 words or more will be considered for publication.  