Boko Haram (File, AFP) Multimedia    ·   User Galleries   ·   News in Pictures
	        Send us your pictures   ·  Send us your stories Gamboru - Chad said on Wednesday it
inflicted heavy losses on Nigeria's Boko Haram, killing "over 200"
Islamist militants in a border town that it wrested from the rebels in a ground
offensive. Nine Chadian soldiers were also killed and
21 injured on Tuesday in Gamboru as regional forces took the fight against the
insurgents on to Nigerian soil for the first time, the Chadian army said. "This toll is provisional," the
Chadian military said in a statement, adding that troops were still combing the
town on Nigeria's border with Cameroon for lingering rebel elements. Around 2 000 Chadian troops backed by
armoured vehicles poured across the border into Gamboru on Tuesday after the
African Union last week backed a regional force to take on the extremists. The sound of automatic gunfire could heard
Wednesday in the town, which has been abandoned by residents after a barrage of
air strikes by Chad in the run-up to its offensive, an AFP journalist reported. While the operation in Gamboru continued,
the town of Fotokol on the other side of the border, in Cameroon, came under
fresh attack from the jihadists. "The guys [Boko Haram] entered this
morning. The fighting between them and our soldiers is very intense," a
Cameroonian security source in Fotokol told AFP by telephone. The Cameroonian troops had managed to repel
the attack by mid-morning, after Chadian soldiers crossed back from Nigeria to
help defend the town. 'Hunt them everywhere' In Gamboru, the clashes left scenes of
desolation, with bodies lying on the ground, houses destroyed, shops gutted and
trucks charred. "We have routed this band of
terrorists," the commander of the Chadian contingent Ahmat Dari told AFP
Tuesday, vowing to "hunt them down everywhere”. Nigeria's military has drawn fierce
criticism for failing to hold back the insurgents, who have stepped up their
campaign of terror in the country's northeast in the run-up to presidential and
parliamentary elections on 14 February. In recent months the group has also carried
out increasing cross-border raids, threatening regional security. Chad's intervention reflects the growing
nervousness among Nigeria's neighbours over the prospect of Boko Haram
achieving its stated aim of carving out an Islamic caliphate on their borders. Nigerian sovereignty 'intact' Nigerian defence spokesperson Chris
Olukolade denied that the presence of foreign troops on Nigerian soil
compromised the country's sovereignty. "Nigeria's territorial integrity
remains intact," he said, claiming national forces had "planned and
are driving the present onslaught against terrorists from all fronts in
Nigeria, not the Chadian forces". Regional forces have gone into action on
several fronts. Chadian troops and vehicles have massed
near Boko Haram-held towns along Nigeria's border with Niger, pointing the way
to another possible cross-border operation. "A contingent of about 400 vehicles
and tanks is stationed between Mamori and Bosso," Niger's private radio
Anfani reported. French help France is supporting the operations by
carrying out reconnaissance flights over border areas of Chad and Cameroon,
defence officials in Paris said. At least 13 000 people have been killed and
more than a million forced from their homes since Boko Haram launched an
insurgency in 2009. The group has stepped up its attacks in
recent weeks, in a move believed to be aimed at disrupting the elections. The rebels have tried, in vain, to capture
the strategic north-eastern town of Maiduguri twice in the past week. On Monday, President Goodluck Jonathan -
who is running for re-election against a former military ruler who has vowed to
defeat Boko Haram - escaped a suspected suicide bomb attack after attending a
campaign rally in Gombe in the northeast. Chad's President Idriss Deby sent soldiers
to Cameroon in mid-January to assist troops from Yaounde fighting increasing
rebel incursions in the country's far northeast. N'Djamena was already part of a
long-standing regional force with Niger and Nigeria in the Lake Chad area. But that force had been assumed to be
moribund after Boko Haram overran the multi-national base in Baga, northern
Borno state, on 3 January, in an attack that also left hundreds of civilians
feared dead. 24.com encourages commentary submitted via MyNews24. Contributions of 200 words or more will be considered for publication.  