Cameroonian soldiers on patrol. (Reinnier Kaze, AFP) Multimedia    ·   User Galleries   ·   News in Pictures
	        Send us your pictures   ·  Send us your stories Niamey - Islamist Boko Haram insurgents from Nigeria bombed
a Niger border town, killing five people, and carried out attacks in
neighbouring Cameroon, kidnapping a bus full of passengers, military and local
sources said on Monday. The jihadist sect has killed thousands of people and
kidnapped hundreds in a bid to impose its rule in northeastern Nigeria, and
stepped up cross-border incursions into Cameroon. An intensification of attacks near Lake Chad - a crossroads
between Nigeria, Chad, and Niger - has sent tens of thousands of Nigerians
fleeing across the borders. The escalating crisis prompted Nigeria to postpone
its 14 February presidential election. With the Nigerian army struggling to contain the militants,
bordering countries have launched a regional offensive against them, spurring a
series of revenge attacks inside Niger and Cameroon. Car bomb Boko Haram militants stormed a prison in Diffa overnight and
set off a car bomb near a customs office in the town, shortly before Niger's
parliament was due to ratify participation in the regional offensive, witnesses
said. Five people were killed in the bomb explosion and five others seriously
injured, Niger security sources said. Heavy gunfire carried on through the day as Niger's army
repelled the assault, Boko Haram's third on Diffa in four days. A member of the
national guard said about 100 suspected Boko Haram militants were in prison in
Niger, but none in Diffa. "We will defeat Boko Haram. Boko Haram has no future in
this region," Nigerien President Mahamadou Issoufou told reporters on
Monday in the capital Niamey. Ghana's President John Dramani Mahama said in
Niamey on Monday that other African countries would offer solidarity to states
affected by Boko Haram. Authorities ordered locals to stay in their homes and
mounted roadblocks around Diffa by late morning. But residents and humanitarian
officials said thousands of people were fleeing from the town in cars and
motorbikes. Cameroon attack In Cameroon, suspected Boko Haram militants attacked the
northern village of Kerawa on Sunday and kidnapped at least 18 people
travelling on a bus near Adanga Danga, military sources said. One said there
were 30 people on board the missing bus. Military sources in the two countries said troops had killed
at least a dozen of its fighters in two days of fighting. On Saturday, the governments of Cameroon, Chad, Niger,
Nigeria and Benin agreed to establish an 8 700-strong multi-national force to
take on Boko Haram. Troops from Chad are already waging an offensive inside
remote northeastern Nigerian territory and claim to have killed hundreds of
Boko Haram fighters last week. A video seen by Reuters on Monday appears to show Boko Haram
leader Abubakar Shekau mocking the plans for a regional military intervention.
"This message is for the people and leaders of Africa. You cannot defeat
us ... Sit back and rethink. Is your constitution and democracy better than
Islam?" he said. 24.com encourages commentary submitted via MyNews24. Contributions of 200 words or more will be considered for publication.  