(File: Sapa) Multimedia    ·   User Galleries   ·   News in Pictures
	        Send us your pictures   ·  Send us your stories Mbombela - The Innibos National Arts Festival has announced that the controversial Afrikaans music legend, Steve Hofmeyr, regarded by many as the main attraction of the festival, has not been invited to this year’s event. The decision was made on 28 January following a string of controversial political viewpoints expressed by Hofmeyr on social media over the past few months. This will be the first time in five years that the musician, who believes Afrikaners are being prescribed to when it comes to their culture, will not perform at Innibos in Mbombela, Mpumalanga. Last year he sang the old South African anthem, Die Stem. “The debacle surrounding his politically sensitive comments on social media influenced the decision of the managing committee and board to not invite Steve to perform at Innibos 2015. We must make clear that we have nothing against him as an artist,” Innibos media liaison Sandra Jacobs said in a press statement. Jacobs said that Hofmeyr’s comments on social media had alienated Afrikaans culture from South Africa’s other cultural groups. “We cannot allow any artist to misuse our platforms and stages and conflict with the vision and mission of Innibos. The festival is intended for cultural entertainment and not politicking,” Jacobs explained. The Klein Karoo National Arts Festival has also decided not to invite Hofmeyr to the 2015 event. A Facebook page protesting the decision has attracted 800 likes, while a similar page has been created to protest the Innibos announcement. Jacobs said that there was a possibility that the festival, which attracts approximately 100 000 visitors per year, will be negatively affected by Hofmeyr’s absence. “Our visitor numbers might be affected. But it depends on how much you believe social media is a barometer of public opinion. We believe that our festival goers will remember the joyful experience of the past eleven years' celebrations and will continue to support Innibos,” Jacobs said. On hearing the news, Hofmeyr fan and White River resident Yolandi Krause said she would not attend this year’s festival. “I am not impressed. Steve is one of the main attractions; he’s the king of Afrikaans music. I think not having him there will have a huge negative impact on this year’s event. I don’t care about what happens in his personal life. Everyone has personal issues and it shouldn’t be connected to his music,” said Krause. 24.com encourages commentary submitted via MyNews24. Contributions of 200 words or more will be considered for publication.  