
	        Multimedia    ·   User Galleries   ·   News in Pictures
	        Send us your pictures   ·  Send us your stories
	     Johannesburg - An Mpumalanga pensioner has been sentenced
to 10 years in jail by the Nelspruit Regional Court for helping her boyfriend
rape her 7-year-old grandchild, and infecting her with HIV. The 67-year-old woman, from Daantjie near Mbombela, was
arrested with her boyfriend in 2008 following the repeated rape of her grandchild,
a Sapa correspondent reported on Friday. She may not be named to protect the child's identity. She
pleaded not guilty to rape, conspiracy to commit rape, and attempted murder. The court heard that the boyfriend, who was HIV-positive,
had died. Passing sentence on Thursday, Magistrate Andre Geldenhuys
said although the woman was reported to have been infected with the HI-virus by
her boyfriend, she denied being positive before court, saying she used muti to
cure herself. "You said you knew he was HIV-positive, and you used
muti. But your health is poor and you currently are on crutches, indicating you
suffer from disabilities," Geldenhuys said. "It is clear you still have the virus." He said the woman was convicted of helping in the rape of
her grandchild, by keeping guard for her boyfriend during the rapes. "As her grandmother, you should have protected her
as she is your daughter's child. But you carried on and exposed her to such
violation and humiliation. What makes things worse is that it happened not once
but several times, and on different days," he said. Geldenhuys said there was no evidence about whether the
boyfriend influenced her or not, as she had denied any involvement and did not
testify. "The fact is that you have been found guilty of
playing a role by assisting him. What is more aggravating is that you show no
remorse, which gives this court no substantial and compelling circumstances for
a lesser sentence," he said. He denied her leave to appeal the conviction. 24.com encourages commentary submitted via MyNews24. Contributions of 200 words or more will be considered for publication.  