A group of boys from an agricultural high school in the Northern Cape made a video of themselves brutalising a black pupil and raping him with a broom handle.The video shows a group of six white pupils, who were wearing only their underpants, attacking the child. The assault allegedly took place in the hostel of the school, which is situated in the town of Jan Kempdorp, on the border with the North West.The four-minute video shows the victim bound by his hands and feet to a steel framed bed. His assailants paint him with a white substance which appears to be the consistency of shaving cream, while a handful of black pupils watch.At the end of the video, which City Press has seen, the child is clearly raped.Northern Cape education spokesperson Sydney Stander said the video was shot on Sunday at the hostel.The young victim s grandmother informed the school of the attack yesterday after the child finally told her what happened.Before he was raped, the video shows his attackers shaving his head and his buttocks. The boy can be heard screaming and crying as his attackers and other boys in the room laugh and joke.They laughed as they raped him.The child is apparently a new pupil at the school, having only enrolled there at the beginning of the year. You cannot tell me that these learners at this age with their level of education didn t know that what they were doing is unacceptable. This is blatant racism, Stander said. How do you take a broom and shove it into the rectum of a young boy? Inflicting pain on another human is criminal, he added.In a statement, Northern Cape education MEC Grizelda Cjiekella-Lecholo said she was at a loss for words. This type of behaviour is unAfrican, inhumane and does not belong in our schooling system. I am going to ensure that these boys face the full might of our due process and the law. Since 2010, we have been working consistently at this school to build a consciousness among our children and communities of one nation, one community. It is clear that these learners have chosen to live the life they were taught in their home environment and they are struggling to coexist with others, different from who they are, she said.Cjiekella-Lecholo added that her department cannot continue to bend over for those who continue to reject the changes that have been embraced by many in our country .The young boy is receiving trauma counselling. The headline and story have been changed to say the schoolboy was raped. The headline and story have been changed to say the schoolboy was raped.24.com encourages commentary submitted via MyNews24. Contributions of 200 words or more will be considered for publication.