North West EFF chief whip Papiki Babuile has been removed as a member of the legislature.Last month, the Citizen reported that Babuile had been running the Economic Freedom Fighters North West affairs from his prison cell. He was jailed last year for 12 years for the murder of David Chika, regional secretary of the African National Congress.Speaker Susan Dantjie s spokesperson, Teboho Chaane, said today that the provincial legislature had, on Wednesday, informed the leader of the Economic Freedom Fighters, that Babuile was no longer eligible to be a member of the legislature.The newspaper said it had been reliably informed that Babuile, whose annual package is over R1 million, received his December and January salaries while in jail.Dantjie learnt of Babuile s conviction through media reports in November last year. She had written to the party twice requesting details of his conviction and sentencing. She finally received information after the newspaper s report.Chaane said Babuile was no longer eligible to be a member of the legislature by virtue of provisions in Section 106 (1) (e) of the Constitution.This section prescribes that a person automatically ceases to be a member of a provincial legislature if that person is convicted of an offence and sentenced to more than 12 months imprisonment. In terms of the correspondence at our disposal, Mr Babuile was indeed convicted for the murder of ... Mr David Chika... and was sentenced for a period of 12 years plus a further sentence of eight years imprisonment for conspiracy to commit murder. Both sentences run concurrently, said Chaane. Babuile attempted to make an application for leave to appeal but the court refused the application. It is effective from the date of his court appeal being refused.Chaane said the legislature would reserve the right to recoup all money paid to him after the membership ceased.24.com encourages commentary submitted via MyNews24. Contributions of 200 words or more will be considered for publication.