Multimedia &nbsp; &nbsp; User Galleries &nbsp; &nbsp; News in Pictures Send us your pictures &nbsp; &nbsp; Send us your stories Former Proteas captain Graeme Smith quit cricket to be with his family at his wife Morgan Deane s insistence but now she s decided to put her singing career ahead of their marriage.Beeld reported yesterday that one of Smith s friends had described him as shattered by the couple s divorce, which they announcedon Thursday. He worshipped the ground she walked on. We all thought it was her who left him. She s previously threatened him with divorce, said the friend, who asked to remain anonymous.Smith (34) apparently told his former cricket team-mates that it was actually he who filed for divorce, but said nothing more.Last year Smith quit cricket completely. Friends of the couple said this was because Deane (31), who is Irish, gave him an ultimatum and threatened divorce if he didn t put his family first.Sources close to the couple told City Press the pair had been fighting recently and divorce had been on the cards for some time.One friend, who attended their wedding at a church in Cape Town s southern suburbs in August 2011, said he was shocked and sad. It was a lovely wedding. Graeme was so emotional. He told me she was the one. Seems she wasn t. The friend added that there were no third parties involved. I heard over the past few weeks they have been fighting big time. He has been staying at home for the kids, but I think she has her eyes on a career as a singer again. The friend said Smith was a homebody at heart but Deane liked to be social and go to parties. Smith was, the friend said, very involved in raising his children. He got up in the middle of the night to give bottles and change nappies. Saddened friends say the couple got married too quickly they had known each other for just six months before they tied the knot.Meanwhile, Deane, on her Twitter account, dismissed speculation that she was the one who left Smith. This story is untrue and disgusting. Never has a story been so incorrect. I will speak in my own time, she wrote.Deane participated in the reality TV show Idols SA last year. Back in Ireland, before she relocated to South Africa to be with Smith, she sang in the pop group Industry.She spoke openly of her ambitions to resume her music career during an interview on the Idols set. When I got married, I had my two babies straight away and I haven t been singing since. But all of a sudden I woke up a few weeks ago and I was, like, What s stopping me? At the time, Smith said: I m supportive of whatever Morgan wants to do. She s loved music her whole life. She s been there for me and the kids for the last part of my career, and if she wants to sing and have fun then so be it. They have a daughter Cadence (2) and son Carter (1).24.com encourages commentary submitted via MyNews24. Contributions of 200 words or more will be considered for publication.