Kalisha NaickerNJABULO Nyawose (27), the taxi driver responsible for the death of world-class cyclist, Burry Stander (25) in January 2013, was last week sentenced to six years imprisonment.Three years of the sentence was however, conditionally suspended for five years. Magistrate Charmaine Barnard of Port Shepstone also cancelled Nyawose s driver s licence.She imposed a further fine of R5 000 (alternatively three months imprisonment) on Nyawose for disobeying a road sign, but ordered that the fine also be suspended for five years on condition that he was not convicted of a similar offence again.The latter was in relation to the fact that Njabulo crossed over a solid barrier line to overtake stationary vehicles, said NPA spokesperson Natasha Ramkisson-Kara, who attended the sentencing.Fever journalist Candyce Krishna said the court was packed, but only Stander s mother Mandie and a friend were there to represent the Stander family.Stander s wife, Cherise, did not attend last week.Mandie sobbed quietly throughout the proceedings and when court adjourned she hugged state prosecutor Christelle Rossouw and left immediately without speaking to journalists.Nyawose became tearful when sentence was passed.Ramkisson-Kara said he was later granted bail of R1 000 pending an application by him for leave to appeal his conviction and sentences, a date for which has not yet been finalised.The general manager of the Cycling SA National Federation, Michael Robert Bradley, told the court in aggravation of sentence that had Stander lived he would most likely have won the Commonwealth Games in 2014, Ramkisson-Kara told The Witness (Fever s sister publication).Bradley described Stander as a world standard cyclist an icon in the cycling world, who was irreplaceable.He described his death as a formidable loss for cycling in South Africa. At the time of Stander s death, SA was ranked eighth in the world, and following his death the ranking dropped to 23rd. Bradley described Stander as a modest, humble young man and said despite his popularity he was never self-obsessed.At one stage when he was offered three local sponsorships, he arranged for the companies to fund other up-and-coming cyclists as he already had international sponsorships. He also helped mentor other cyclists, said Bradley.Ramkisson-Kara said one of the factors which Barnard took into account when passing sentence was the fact that she found that there was no indication of real remorse on Nyawose s part.She said it was hard to determine if he felt only regret for the consequences of his actions, or was genuinely remorseful. The defence had rejected any suggestion of Nyawose serving imprisonment, even when the court proposed the possibility of imposing periodical imprisonment on Nyawose.Barnard emphasised the gross negligence of Nyawose s actions on the day of the accident, which directly resulted in Stander s death while he was on a training ride in the Shelly Beach area. According to earlier reports in the media Nyawose who was convicted in April this year collided with Stander in peak hour traffic. The court found that he overtook stationary vehicles to turn into a side street and get out of a traffic jam. In doing so, he disregarded a solid white barrier line and did not keep a proper lookout for oncoming traffic. Stander came fifth in the men s cross-country race at the 2012 London Olympics. Four years earlier, at the Beijing Games, he finished 15th in the cross-country event24.com encourages commentary submitted via MyNews24. Contributions of 200 words or more will be considered for publication.