Chelsea Pieterse Duct’s water health researcher Kholosa Magudu has been awarded the Prince Bernhard Scholarship for nature conservation from the WWF.  (Supplied) Multimedia    ·   User Galleries   ·   News in Pictures
	        Send us your pictures   ·  Send us your stories A DUSI-uMngeni Conservation Trust (Duct) water health scientist has been awarded the prestigious Prince Bernhard Scholarship for nature conservation from the World Wide Fund (WWF). Kokstad-born Kholosa Magudu was awarded the scholarship in May this year for her interest and efforts towards nature conservation in KwaZulu-Natal. The 25-year-old said she was both humbled and excited to have been awarded the scholarship as it would cover all the costs of future conservation conferences and a portion of her tuition fees. “I applied in January because my boss Doug Burden from Duct sent me an application form. “I didn’t actually think I would get it because there were so many applicants and it is an international scholarship. When I heard I had been awarded the scholarship in May, I was excited and extremely humbled. My family and work colleagues have all been so supportive as well.” Magudu said she first became interested in conservation and environmental studies during her high school days in Kokstad. “In high school, Wessa [Wildlife and Environment Society of South Africa] hosted a few enviro quizzes that I took part in and I would travel from Kokstad to UKZN in Pietermaritzburg to participate. “That is when I first realised I wanted to work in conservation,” she said. She said she started as an intern at Duct in 2013 and was busy working on her masters which focussed on the role of naturally functioning ecosystems in improving in-stream water quality in urban areas. She said her research was being conducted in conjunction with the eThekwini Municipality and hoped the results would be used to manage water in the municipality. “Receiving the scholarship is really rewarding and has inspired me to continue with my research.” She added that she was considering doing her PhD so she could extend her research by three years and “get the conclusive results” the eThekwini Municipality would need to put her research into practice 24.com encourages commentary submitted via MyNews24. Contributions of 200 words or more will be considered for publication.  