Bridget Siebert Prince   Nhlanganiso Zulu, a TB ambassador, speaks at the 55th     Community Chest annual general meeting at Maritzburg Golf Club. Multimedia    ·   User Galleries   ·   News in Pictures
	        Send us your pictures   ·  Send us your stories PRINCE Nhlanganiso Zulu was the highlight at the 55th Pietermaritzburg and District Community Chest annual general meeting at Maritzburg Golf Club last week. Zulu is the Chest’s tuberculosis ambassador, having survived TB, and spoke from experience about the disease, encouraging people and businesses to get on board and fight TB together. Another speaker was John McInroy, founder of the Unogwaja Challenge. McInroy and his team walk, some cycle, from Cape Town to Pietermaritzburg and run the Comrades Marathon the next day, the purpose of which is to raise funds for charity. They have raised over R2 million over the past five years for the AmaBeadiBeadi Charities of Comrades. This year they raised R180 000 for Community Chest. Another highlight of the meeting was the graduation of 28 students from the Chest’s Youth Leadership Academy, sponsored by Industrial Development Corporation. The John Hall Extra Mile Award was presented by John Hall to Romilla Chetty. “Chetty is not only a donor, but a great supporter of the Chest. She always goes the extra mile to help Community Chest and was therefore nominated to receive this prestigious award,” said Angie Narayanan. Michael Deegan, director at the Chest, announced that an educational bursary fund will be established in memory the late Colin Gardner and Tim McNally. Deegan said that the fund-raising target of R4 million was exceeded by 18. “We set a budget of R4 million for 2015/6 but due to early year trust and DAG [Donor-Advised-Giving] donations this has now increased to R6 million, a 50% increase,” he said. He said the Chest’s four pillars continue to be health, education, income generation and community development. The focus for health is TB, education is early childhood development, income generation is an SMME conference and community development is sustainable value-added services 24.com encourages commentary submitted via MyNews24. Contributions of 200 words or more will be considered for publication.  