Hlengiwe Nhlabathi and S’thembile Cele Sdumo Dlamini
 
	        Multimedia    ·   User Galleries   ·   News in Pictures
	        Send us your pictures   ·  Send us your stories
	     Delegates arriving at Cosatu's special congress in Midrand danced and sang "Vavi likes sex" before the congress got under way. Watch.WATCH Cosatu president S’dumo Dlamini has vehemently denied claims that he is ruling the trade union federation's highly charged special congress with an iron fist.  Dlamini was tonight conducting a short press briefing with journalists who had stuck around outside the congress venue since noon when they were asked to leave the session that reached a deadlock on the matter of credentials.  It is understood that the two contentious issues were the position of second deputy president Zingiswa Losi – who is allegedly occupying the position illegally – and the inclusion of newly admitted Liberated Metalworkers Union of South Africa (Limusa).  “We have a situation where, at credentials point this morning, [there] were two motions that came out, whether to accept the credentials as presented or not to accept credentials as presented. We have not started with the agenda; we have not started anything.  “Our constitution is clear – once there are two motions, you need then to vote on that. We have now agreed that there is going to be a vote.”  Members claimed that the decision to vote by the showing of hands – rather than secret ballot – was imposed by the president.  “The show of hands or secret ballot is what congress decides; the constitution will not say whether the delegates should vote on one of those, it says to vote on either of those and then congress makes that decision. There is now a decision from the chair that voting will be by show of accreditation by delegates voting – yes or no.”  When asked if the decision to vote by show of hands was met with any opposition, Dlamini gave an abrupt “no”.  Dlamini also admitted that should the congress vote not to adopt the credentials as presented, the congress would come to an end.  “If the credentials are rejected, definitely you will realise that there is no meeting that can happen; we will not proceed.”  Questions have also been raised about the congress going beyond the two days which it was scheduled for.  “We are workers, we are here to work. For us we have to deal with the agenda that is set – once it is adopted. Should we not finish the agenda, congress will decide how to deal with the outstanding items, should it come to that, but we have set the congress for two days.”  Dlamini remained adamant that the congress would not collapse despite unions loyal to Vavi and Numsa strongly pushing for the credentials not to be adopted. They were also calling for the reinstatement of expelled secretary general Zwelinzima Vavi and his close ally, metal workers' union Numsa.  “I am not a doomsayer; I am not talking about the collapse of congress here ... we are about building Cosatu. I am not going to pre-empt and say the congress will collapse. We are working for a congress that must fulfil its function as we are here. We are not yet in any collapse.”  24.com encourages commentary submitted via MyNews24. Contributions of 200 words or more will be considered for publication.  