NICOLE MCCAIN Mountain biking trails will be upgraded in Higgovale starting this month. Multimedia &nbsp; &nbsp; User Galleries &nbsp; &nbsp; News in Pictures Send us your pictures &nbsp; &nbsp; Send us your stories A community project is underway to upgrade mountain bike trails in Higgovale.The Table Mountain Bikers have committed to upgrading trails along a green belt, between Leeuwenhof Road and Glen Avenue, to create an inclusive space for cyclists and residents.The cyclists frequently use the green belt after evening mountain rides, and after repairing a few of the trails, realised the park held much more potential.They have now raised funds to carry out an upgrade of the entire site, says Table Mountain Bikers Robert Vogel.The upgrade aims to revitalise a strip of forested green belt with a stream. He hopes the park will be transformed into an adventure area, with the planned addition of a jungle gym, filled with both cyclists and local families. The area will be both child-friendly and for serious cyclists. The trails will cater to a range of levels, he says.The trail upgrade comes as mountain bikers are finding trails in the city few and far between.Most of the mountainous areas falls under Table Mountain National Park; there are only three trails on the mountain. At the moment, one of these trails is closed following a fire earlier in the year, Vogel says. We don t have many trails and there is always a need for more, he says.A professional trail builder will come on board to ensure the foundation of the trails is solid, with the organisation then taking over the long-term maintenance. The upgrade will see soil brought in to build a series of berms, or raised sloped sides, to allow the track to slope down, Vogel says. We re bringing activity into the area and making the park safer. It s also going to clean up the green belt, he says. We re not excluding anyone; we re just bringing more users to the park. Vogel expects the upgrade to begin this month24.com encourages commentary submitted via MyNews24. Contributions of 200 words or more will be considered for publication.