Mandla Mahashe Residents from ward 42 in Gugulethu together with community organisations marched against violent crime on Madiba Day. PHOTO: Mandla Mahashe Multimedia &nbsp; &nbsp; User Galleries &nbsp; &nbsp; News in Pictures Send us your pictures &nbsp; &nbsp; Send us your stories While many spent the day doing good as part of the 67 minutes for Mandela national project, ward 42 residents in Gugulethu decided to grab attention by marching the streets against crime. Led by the local ANC office, they marched from NY3a to the Gugulethu police station, urging the police to help them combat violent crime. This followed the brutal rape of two women, with one of them being killed and the other managing to escape on Saturday 03 July.The two were allegedly accosted by two gun-totting men who forced themselves on them before the one woman managed to escape. This was the last straw for the community who had seen a string of violent events, said ANC ward 42 branch secretary Mfuzo Zenzile. We have had enough of violent crime in our area and we are here pleading with the police to strengthen their efforts to fight crime. We feel that the police station is situated too far from the crime hotspots where thugs are running amok, killing the young and the old in our community, said Zenzile. Ward 42 comprises of section 2, Khikhi area, Lotus River, NYs 50 and 21 as well as some parts of Mannenburg. In a memorandum handed to the police, the residents demanded that a mobile police station be made available to the area to respond faster to crime. They are taking too long to arrive and sometimes fail to do follow ups on cases. There is always a complaint of lack of vans. If that is there case then the government must make sure that appropriate resources are made available, he said. Zenzile also said they were very disappointed with members of the community who failed to turn up for the march. It seems that people only act out on crime when it directly affects them and this is not good. We need the community to get up and fight against crime in unity, he said. Siphokazi Bona, a social worker at Ilitha Labantu reiterated Zenzile s calls for unity among residents. It is our children that are dying on the streets and we need to rise against violent crime in our communities. 24.com encourages commentary submitted via MyNews24. Contributions of 200 words or more will be considered for publication.