Mbongiseni MasekoPastor Sizwe Nyobole, the president for African Ministries Independent Churches Organisation (AMICO), praying at the scene where the body of Bongiwe Ninini was found, in Thembani, on Monday. PHOTO: Mbongiseni MASEKO Multimedia &nbsp; &nbsp; User Galleries &nbsp; &nbsp; News in Pictures Send us your pictures &nbsp; &nbsp; Send us your stories Thanks to the efforts of the community, the police have taken into custody three youngsters alleged to be responsible for the death of Bongiwe Ninini.After City Vision (Death his family hard, 23 July 2015) reported on the pain of the family who lost a daughter at a young age, the religious fraternity rallied the community to help police apprehend the perpetrators of the gruesome act.Ninini from Site C in Khayelitsha, was found killed and her body stuffed into a drain about two weeks ago.She had been raped and had stab wounds all over her body.At a prayer meeting at the spot where her body was found, the clergy appealed to the conscience of the community to bring the wrongdoesr to book.Constable Thembakazi Jacobs, communication officer at Khayelitsha police station, said they received information after the prayer meeting which led to the arrest of the three suspects aged 19, 20 and 21, respectively, at their homes on Tuesday.Jacobs said the suspects stay very close to Ninini s home.She also said they were due to appear in Khayelitsha Magistrate s Court soon.Families relievedNosapho Sgelem, a relative of the Ninini s said the family was relieved to hear of the arrest of the suspects. We are very happy and we hope they are real culprits. This is going to make us feel much better now, Sgelem said.The prayer meeting and march, which was attended by almost all community based organisations such as Saps, church leaders, ANC Women s League, Sanco, the Department of Correctional Services, and many other organisations, was held at the scene of the crime, and then moved on to the deceased s home, on Monday.Nobongile Ninini, could not hold her tears during the visit to the scene where her daughter lost her life. Archbishop, John Jongintaba of the Revolution Church of God, prayed that Ninini s killers do not find peace for her death. We were given a power to curse. I curse that those who stepped around this hole and killed her not to find peace in their lives, Jongintaba added.Woman s MonthPastor Sizwe Nyobole, the president of the African Ministries Independent Churches Organisation (AMICO), advised the youth to be alert at all times and be home by 6pm as crime was high. I am 72 years now, but I have never seen something like this. We must be vigilant at all times, he said.Phumeza Gxowa of the ANCWL sent their condolences to the family of Ninini. We are appealing to government to utilise all open spaces in the community, because they are an attraction to thugs to commit criminal activities, Gxowa said.Qhama Bongikhaya, communication officer for Sanco in the province, said they were appaled by the levels of abuse and killing of women and children. This happens as the country is headed for women s month. We are against all sorts of abuse and killing of women and children. Ninini s funeral will be held in Mount Fletcher, in the Eastern Cape, on Saturday24.com encourages commentary submitted via MyNews24. Contributions of 200 words or more will be considered for publication.