Jeff Wicks, News24 Brett Williams Multimedia    ·   User Galleries   ·   News in Pictures
	        Send us your pictures   ·  Send us your stories Durban - Blayne Shepard, 25, accused of murdering former
Royal Marine Brett Williams at a rugby match two years ago, was found guilty of
culpable homicide on Monday. Williams was killed at Kings Park Rugby Stadium after a match
between the Sharks and the Melbourne Rebels two years ago. Durban Regional Court Magistrate Trevor Levitt found that
Williams had been kicked to death, but the State had not proved that the
intention had been to kill him.The seasoned magistrate relied heavily on the testimony of eyewitnesses coupled
with the expert evidence from three doctors. Here are some of the key aspects Levitt could not rely on
when arriving at his guilty verdict in a case that gripped the city and made
international headlines. • The Kirsten Cooper factor: Sister to Sharks rugby star
Kyle Cooper, Kirsten was in a relationship with key state witness Grant Cramer
and was present during the fight which led to Williams’ death but was not
called as a witness. In a statement, Cooper said: “The guard and the medics
were pushing everyone when the deceased appeared to lose his balance and fell
to the ground with a thud. It looked like he hit the edge of the trailer, and I
never saw him move after that.” While the defence argued that the state had failed to
call Cooper as a key witness, Levitt found that they had every opportunity to
call her as a defence witness and opted out.  “If this version or possible
defence was so important to the case of the accused, who seemed intent on establishing
an explanation for the injury of the deceased, even though there was no
obligation in law to do so, then he was free to call her [as a witness].” Her statement, referred to in questions posed to other
witnesses, is hearsay and untested. • The missing blood sample: A sealed container that was
sent with Williams' blood sample to the forensic laboratory for a toxicology
report was returned empty with no sample in it. “The court believes that the blood analysis would have
assisted the court the most in confirming the blood-alcohol level of the
deceased, a fact that may be in line with his obnoxious and confrontational
attitude that the court has identified from the evidence of several
witnesses," Levitt said in his judgement. "It does not find that the embarrassing
disappearance of the blood from within its still intact and sealed vial can be
said to have prejudiced either the prosecution or the defence…” • The CCTV footage: A copy of footage from security
cameras at the stadium was admitted into evidence with Levitt remarking: “As an
exhibit it is of no assistance to any of the parties insofar as the actual
assault on the deceased are concerned due to the poor lighting and focussing… there
were no cameras focussed directly as the scene of the crime at the tractor
shed.” In his judgement, the magistrate said that defence
attorney Christo van Schalkwyk had lamented the fact that the original video
had gone missing. "In all of this the court does not forget that the
accused bears no onus whatsoever to establish his innocence, the burden resting
throughout on the state. “In this trial there is indeed alternative evidence in
the form of eyewitnesses.”   24.com encourages commentary submitted via MyNews24. Contributions of 200 words or more will be considered for publication.