Mbongiseni MasekoMzimbanzi Sgelem, aunt of the deceased, Nobongile Ninini, mother of the deceased, and Nosapho Sgelem, also the aunt, are mourning the death of Bongiwe Ninini,19. Inset: Bongiwe. PHOTOS: mBONGISENI mASEKO Multimedia &nbsp; &nbsp; User Galleries &nbsp; &nbsp; News in Pictures Send us your pictures &nbsp; &nbsp; Send us your stories The family of a 19 year old girl who was raped and brutally killed is finding it hard to come to terms with her death.The corpse of Bongiwe Ninini, from Site C, was found stuffed in a drain with gaping wounds to her body, in an open field not far from Thembani shopping centre, on Friday night.Constable Thembakazi Jacobs, communications officer at the Khayelitsha police station said cases of murder and rape were being investigated by the police regarding Ninini s death and that no arrest(s) have been made yet. Nosapho Sgelem, an aunt of the deceased, said Ninini left home in Rose Street with two male friends and one female friend on Friday evening. They were leaving for their separate homes, according to her.Sgelem said the friends later told them that Ninini left the house at about 10pm to look for another friend at a drinking spot in the area, and that some patrons there said she did not stay long after she did not find the said friend. It was not already clear where she headed to after leaving the drinking spot. She said they were woken up by the police in the early hours of Saturday morning who informed them that Ninini had been killed. One of her shoes was found next to a shack in the area, so we suspect that she was dragged to an open space across the street. There was also blood next to the shack. Her mother (Nobongile Ninini) fainted after the police informed us that her body was found in the drain. We are so traumatised that we cannot sleep at night. It is hard to accept that she is dead, Sgelem said.V Continued on page 324.com encourages commentary submitted via MyNews24. Contributions of 200 words or more will be considered for publication.