Five arrested suspects and eleven bags of gold dust. (Ekurhuleni Metropolitan Police Department) 
	        Multimedia    ·   User Galleries   ·   News in Pictures
	        Send us your pictures   ·  Send us your stories
	     Johannesburg - Two young girls playing near a mine dump in
Benoni, east of Johannesburg, were hit by stray bullets in a shooting
apparently involving illegal miners on Sunday, according to officials. The two girls, aged 7 and 11, were hospitalised after
suffering minor to moderate injuries to the legs due to bullets that
ricocheted, said ER24 spokesperson Russel Meiring. "Paramedics treated the patients for their injuries and
thereafter transported them to Far East Rand Hospital for urgent treatment." The shooting happened at a mine dump near the N12 in
Putfontein, Benoni on Sunday morning. Shooting Meiring said the circumstances of the shooting were not
known. But Ekurhuleni metro police department spokesperson Chief Superintendent
Wilfred Kgasago said although he was not aware of the two girls being injured,
a shooting involving illegal miners was reported in the N12/Putfontein informal
settlement around 11:00 on Sunday morning. Metro police responding to the scene spotted a
bullet-riddled blue Volkswagen Polo leaving the informal settlement, and closed
in on it near Golden Drive in Benoni. "The EMPD Equestrian members were able to arrest five
suspects, seize eleven bags laden with suspected gold dust as well as the
vehicle the suspects were travelling in as it had several bullet holes on its
body." Four of the five men are Lesotho nationals and one man is a
Mozambican. The men were aged between 18 and 38. "They were all locked up on charges of illegal mining
at Benoni police station and are expected to appear in the Benoni Magistrate’s
Court soon," said Kgasago. Last month, police got involved in a shoot-out with about 30
foreign nationals believed to be illegal miners in Benoni. No-one was hurt but
nine people were arrested. 24.com encourages commentary submitted via MyNews24. Contributions of 200 words or more will be considered for publication.  