Kyle VenktessNielen de Klerk, News24 Multimedia &nbsp; &nbsp; User Galleries &nbsp; &nbsp; News in Pictures Send us your pictures &nbsp; &nbsp; Send us your stories A TRUCK driver bizarrely emerged unscathed from two accidents at the weekend.It&rsquo;s alleged he first crashed his truck into an accident scene, killing a tow truck driver, and then allegedly sped off in an ambulance, which he also crashed.Paramedics attended to the initial scene, where there were no injuries, on the M7 west-bound before the Wakesleigh Road intersection around 9&thinsp;pm on Saturday. As the ambulance was leaving the scene they saw a truck plough into the accident scene and come to a halt down the embankment. Paramedics ran to the scene and found the critically injured breakdown operator at the bottom of the embankment. Efforts to save him failed and he died on the scene. While paramedics tended to the tow truck driver, the driver of the truck responsible allegedly got into the Rescue Care Hyundai H1 emergency vehicle and fled the scene. Bystanders gave chase and the ambulance crashed at the corner of Umbilo Road and Deodar Avenue. The driver was arrested shortly afterwards by police.Rescue Care&rsquo;s operations director Garrith Jamieson said that he had to make a decision on whether to chase after the vehicle or tend to the patient. &ldquo;Someone&rsquo;s life is definitely more important &mdash; vehicles can be replaced,&rdquo; he said.Jamieson said &ldquo;paramedics always have to have eyes at the back of their head&rdquo;, adding that there was always the risk of being injured while tending to the scene of the accident. &ldquo;&hellip; At an accident scene we try to alert road users and warn them about the scene ahead. People are sometimes not very fond of tow truck drivers, but they help us a lot at accident scenes,&rdquo; he said.Miami Towing staff were traumatised after the incident, in which they lost a friend and colleague. They told The Witness they would comment about the incident soon.&ldquo;Rescue Care would like to send condolences to the family, friends and colleagues of the man who lost his life whilst trying to assist others. As regards the theft of the ambulance we will be leaving all investigations up to the SAPS and will assist them with whatever they need to ensure the law takes its course,&rdquo; Jamieson said.24.com encourages commentary submitted via MyNews24. Contributions of 200 words or more will be considered for publication.