ReporterHOME-COOKED food like stews, casseroles and curries are all the more satisfying in winter. However, the seasonal delight of indulging in hearty foods does not mean that you have to spend hours in front of the stove and cause a spike in your electricity bill in winter - stoves use much electricity and cooking accounts for up to 8% of the electricity used in an average household in South Africa. Electricity smart cooking - preparing quick and easy recipes and using appliances that use little or no electricity - will allow you to save time, effort and money even when you decide to prepare one of your big winter favourites. A cookbook featuring electricity-saving recipes, The 49M Cookbook, can now be downloaded from the Eskom website. The cookbook is filled with electricity-saving recipes that are prepared using energy efficient methods such as one-pot cooking and electricity saving appliances such as pressure cookers and Wonderbags.One-pot meals are energy efficient because you cook all the ingredients in one pot using one stove plate only. Apart from the fact that it cuts preparation times and, importantly, saves you electricity, it also takes a fraction of the time to clean up afterwards. The 49M Cookbook&rsquo;s one-pot recipes include spicy chicken and beans and sweet and sour pork.A pressure cooker&rsquo;s much shorter cooking times makes it one of the simplest, easiest, most convenient and cost-effective ways to save energy in a winter kitchen. The Wonderbag, on the other hand, is even more energy efficient. This simple heat retention cooker was developed in South Africa and saves up to 30% on the electricity you consume for cooking. Once brought to the boil on a heat source such as a stove plate, the warm pot containing the food is placed in the Wonderbag and continues to cook slowly without using any additional energy until finished. The cooker is made of two poly-cotton bags filled with either recycled polystyrene balls or foam chips, which provide the insulation needed to complete the cooking process and keep the food warm.The 49M Cookbook features a host of mouthwatering recipes prepared in a Wonderbag, including winter favourites oxtail stew with dumplings and beef and beer casserole, both dishes requiring only 20 minutes of stove time and a further 5 hours of slow-cooking in a Wonderbag using no electricity. High-pressure cooking the 49M way includes recipes for Moroccan lamb shanks and quick and easy leek and potato soup; the shanks are ready in 50 minutes and the leek soup in 8 minutes. Conventionally, the shanks would need to simmer for 3 to 4 hours on an electric hob and the soup for 30 to 40 minutes.Visit www.eskom.co.za/idm and click on Residential to download the 49M Cookbook24.com encourages commentary submitted via MyNews24. Contributions of 200 words or more will be considered for publication.