From Page 1In another burglary which took place last week the thugs stole, among other things a laptop which was in the principal s office.Parker said they will continue protesting until the WCED assures them that they will provide a full time security in the school. We tried to urge parents to make some financial contribution to hire a security, but they turned down the proposal, claiming they do not have money. We are a no-fee school and we cannot afford to pay a security on our own. The department pumps in a lot of money here buying all the machinery, but it becomes wasted in the hands of thugs. We have observed that other surrounding schools here do not experience such burglaries that we experience, he added.Vuyisa Nogaga, a Grade 12 learner said the burglaries have to stop now. They affect us a lot, because we no longer have the equipment that we need for our studies. We are now forced to go to Sizimisele High School to do our work which might make other learners to think their ideas will be stolen since we do similar projects with them. We need security guards in this school. We are prepared to go to the department (WCED) to protest there if our grievances are not met, Nogaga said.Landile Sibeko, the president of Learners Representative Council (LRC), said they have reached a point where they cannot take it anymore. We are now tired of it, because we get disrupted in our studies. It is going to be cold in classes in winter since the thugs also break windows here. We cannot continue living like this in this school. Something must be done to change the situation, Sibeko said.Nceba Mazongolo, chairperson for School Governing Body (SGB), condemned the burglaries. We do not feel good at all about the burglaries, because they badly affect teaching and learning in the school. We have come to decision to involve residents in fight against it, Mazongolo said.Millicent Merton, Directorate Communication at WCED, said some senior district officials visited the school yesterday after the burglary was reported to them.She said learners were dismissed at 13h45 and that classes resumed on Tuesday. The school has been identified as a Safe Schools core school for the year and they will be supported with various security mechanisms. The school received funding from the WCED for emergency security. Other measures include SAPS patrols in the evenings and over weekends. All role-players are set for a meeting later this week to map out a further security plan and strategy, Merton said.Parker said there were no arrest(s) made in all the incidents and also accused the Lingelethu East police officers for not keeping them updated with the progress in their cases. Police came and took statements, but they never came back to tell us what is going on with all our cases, he added.Colonel Michael Reitz, station commander of Lingelethu West, confirmed the burglaries at the school. No arrests have been made yet, he said24.com encourages commentary submitted via MyNews24. Contributions of 200 words or more will be considered for publication.