(Shutterstock) Multimedia &nbsp; &nbsp; User Galleries &nbsp; &nbsp; News in Pictures Send us your pictures &nbsp; &nbsp; Send us your stories Polokwane - After years of neglect and disrepair, a snake-infested school in Ga-Manamela village, near Limpopo&rsquo;s capital of Polokwane, is hoping to get mobile classrooms. In addition to learning in shacks, the more than 230 pupils at Kgwaredi Primary School have to battle snakes.&ldquo;This place is snake infested. I don&rsquo;t know if it is because of the forest or the mountains or the vegetation, but we are used to seeing snakes,&rdquo; said principal Ngoasheng Nhona. She said children no longer called teachers to remove the snakes, but attacked and killed the reptiles themselves. &ldquo;It&rsquo;s normal. We are always on the alert, but our children no longer report seeing snakes, they simply kill them,&rdquo; she said.Since April, pupils have been taught in shacks which parents put up after they demolished the roof of the dilapidated classrooms, fearing it would collapse. They used the roofing material for the shacks.Mobile classroomsParents have complained that the education department has failed to provide mobile classrooms for the past 15 years. The school had good ablution facilities, however.Department spokesperson Paena Galane said the school would get mobile classrooms.&ldquo;We have discovered that there are five mobile classrooms available from neighbouring schools. Kgwaredi needs four, which will be allocated to the school,&rdquo; said Galane. He could not say by when this would happen as it depended on the company providing the classrooms.&ldquo;We had a meeting with the school governing body and they requested our intervention. At the beginning of the year we had requested schools to submit their demands, but they did not submit requests for classrooms,&rdquo; Galane said. School governing body chairperson James Mothiba said they no longer believed the department&rsquo;s promises, saying nothing ever materialised.24.com encourages commentary submitted via MyNews24. Contributions of 200 words or more will be considered for publication.