Cara-Lee Scheun, Netwerk24 Michelle and Toni Inggs in the Port Elizabeth Magistrate’s Court. (Werner Hills, Netwerk24) 
	        Multimedia    ·   User Galleries   ·   News in Pictures
	        Send us your pictures   ·  Send us your stories
	     Port Elizabeth - It was an emotional day in the Port Elizabeth Magistrate's Court on Wednesday for Michelle Inggs, mother of murdered Jayde Panayiotou, and Toni Inggs, Jayde's younger sister, reported Netwerk24 on Thursday. The Inggs appeared in court for Christopher Panayiotou’s bail hearing for the first time since he was arrested on April 30. Although there was space in the front row of benches for family members, Michelle and Toni sat in the second row, behind the Panayiotou family. The two families, who only a month ago attended Jayde's funeral together, didn’t share a single word throughout the proceedings.  As Christopher Panayiotou entered the court, Toni and Michelle stared straight at him. With trembling hands, Michelle wiped a tear from her face as her son-in-law took his seat in the dock. Gruelling bail application In a gruelling bail application, the court heard details of Panayiotou's "cold and calculated" plans to have his wife killed, dating as far back as last September, News24 reported on Wednesday. Christopher, 28, is accused of being the mastermind behind the murder of his wife Jayde on April 21. He faces charges of conspiracy to commit murder, murder‚ kidnapping, robbery with aggravating circumstances and defeating the ends of justice. Thando Siyoli‚ 31‚ and Sizwezakhe Vumazonke‚ 30‚ are Panayiotou’s co-accused. Evidence has been submitted by State Prosecutor, Marius Stander, that there were previous failed attempts on Jayde's life before that fateful Tuesday last month. Twists and turns With many twists and turns, often heated exchanges between the State and the defence, and numerous delays, both sides finally concluded their arguments on Wednesday. Magistrate Abigail Beeton indicated that, as this had been more than a normal bail application, there was a substantial amount of information that had been submitted before her. She addressed Panayiotou directly and made it clear that she wanted to apply her mind to the case and, while she accepted that he had already been in holding for a while, he would need to wait a little longer before she handed down her ruling. Panayiotou said he understood. The bail judgment has been postponed to June 4. To read News24's wrap of Christopher Panayiotou's bail hearing on Wednesday, click here. 24.com encourages commentary submitted via MyNews24. Contributions of 200 words or more will be considered for publication.  