Maintenance to the station deck at the Cape Town train station will see taxis diverted to the Grand Parade for six days.In order to carry out the maintenance and repairs unhindered, public access to certain areas will be restricted. No taxis will be allowed onto the station deck until Thursday, when operators can return to the taxi rank.The station deck taxi rank dates back to 1996 when the roofscape of the Cape Town station opposite the civic centre was used as a minibus taxi rank for the first time, explains Brett Herron, mayoral committee member for transport. It is one of the city s key taxi ranks where thousands of commuters from suburbs across the city get into and out of their taxis. The City is investing approximately R1m to improve the facilities at the station deck, he says.In a recent ward 77 committee forum concerns were raised about the temporary taxi rank, following a recent upgrade of the site and congestion caused by an upgrade to the Strand and Adderley streets intersection.However, Herron assures minimal disruption will be caused as the closure is only for six days and will fall mostly over public holidays and the weekend. This is the only area fit to accommodate the temporary relocation of the minibus taxi operations in terms of size, proximity to the Cape Town central business district and access, he says. Past experience has also taught us that a number of people prefer to be on leave during this short working week and therefore we do not expect the traffic to be as congested as during a normal working week. Maintenance teams will paint the buildings and road markings, repair the lighting, repair potholes and cracks in the road surface and sidewalks, and install new destination boards to assist commuters in finding the correct departure lanes to their destinations, Herron says. As part of the maintenance and repair work, new lanes will be allocated to the various destinations the details of which will be communicated to the operators and commuters in due course, he says.Once the repairs have been completed, the City will implement a new operational plan to alleviate the congestion on the station deck. A new access control system for legal operators with the authority to drop off and pick up passengers will be implemented, which will assist in preventing illegal operators from entering and operating at the taxi rank, Herron says24.com encourages commentary submitted via MyNews24. Contributions of 200 words or more will be considered for publication.