Giordano Stolley, News24 (SAPS) Multimedia    ·   User Galleries   ·   News in Pictures
	        Send us your pictures   ·  Send us your stories Durban - Former police spokesperson Vincent Mdunge was
sentenced to five years imprisonment by the Durban Regional Court on Monday. Mdunge was convicted last year of two counts of fraud and
one of forgery for allegedly presenting a fake matric certificate to gain
promotion in the police force and to gain entrance to do further studies at the
University of South Africa. In a very brief court session, Magistrate Thandeka  Fikeni said in sentencing that she had taken
into account the fact  that Mdunge was a
first time offender. However, she pointed out that Mdunge held a position of
status and was a high-ranking officer, and that white collar crime such as
corruption and fraud is rife in society. “There is absolutely nothing respectable about white collar
crime,” she said. Appeal Mdunge’s lawyer, Advocate Yusuf Omar, sought leave to appeal
the conviction and the sentence. This was granted by Fikeni, who also extended Mdunge’s R5 000
bail conditions pending the outcome of his appeal. Mdunge, 49, was convicted on a count of fraud for receiving
a salary to which he was not entitled. The highest rank a police officer can achieve in the police
without a matric certificate is warrant officer. Mdunge had reached the rank of
colonel. He was found guilty of fraud for submitting his forged
matric certificate to the University of SA to obtain admission to a National
Diploma in Police Administration course. Prosecutor Barend Groen told the court earlier this year
that the State had determined that Mdunge had received R874 901.31 as a salary
that he was not entitled. This would be the difference between his salary as a colonel
and that of a warrant officer. However, on Monday Fikeni made no order for Mdunge to repay
any money.   24.com encourages commentary submitted via MyNews24. Contributions of 200 words or more will be considered for publication.