FAMILIES of the Fezokuhle children who were killed and injured in January’s Imbali crash say they are perturbed by the slow pace of the investigation. In January a bakkie carrying more than 24 children from ­Fezokuhle Primary ploughed into a house, killing eight pupils and injuring more than 16. The bakkie driver, Lungile Mthimkhulu, was critically injured, but was discharged from hospital a few weeks after the accident. She has ­however, refused interviews with the press since the accident three months ago. Police said the case is still under investigation and when it is completed, the docket will be sent to the public prosecutor for a decision. Spokesperson Major Thulani Zwane said the driver’s whereabouts are known to the police. Parents of the children who were ­involved in the crash have complained that investigations are taking too long and want to hear what happened from Mthimkhulu herself. Philisile Njoko, the mother of two children critically injured in the crash, said they had met with police last week to discuss progress. “We spoke with police and they told us to wait for them to finish with their investigation. We understand, but what I want to know is why have we not heard anything from the bakkie ­driver?” Njoko, whose son and daughter remained in the intensive care in Edendale Hospital for almost a month, said she wanted to know where the bakkie driver was and why the investigation was taking so long. “We all feel the same. Eight children are dead. Why is she still at home?” Simphiwe Chonco, whose daughter Sinethemba was killed in the crash, said he and his family had not heard anything from the bakkie driver. “She has not come to see our family to explain what happened, but we really cannot comment on how we feel because we don’t have any information on what caused the crash.” He said they had spoken to police with the other families and could not comment further on the matter as the case was still under investigation. A police source said all the evidence on the case had to be collected and sorted before any charges could be made. They said it was a high priority case and the police wanted to make sure they had all their ducks in a row to “make sure nothing will go wrong” 24.com encourages commentary submitted via MyNews24. Contributions of 200 words or more will be considered for publication.  