Nombulelo Damba, GroundUp (File: NUM) Multimedia    ·   User Galleries   ·   News in Pictures
	        Send us your pictures   ·  Send us your stories Cape Town - About 174 construction workers involved in
building schools in the Western Cape have been on an unprotected strike for
nearly five weeks. One person died when violence broke out between the
strikers, who are members of the National Union of Mineworkers (NUM), and
security guards. Some of the demands of the strikers, who work for Good
Hope Construction (GHC), are provision of personal protective equipment; an end
to the alleged hiring of gangsters; an end to layoffs that don’t follow
procedure; and payment of R1.4m of workers’ pension money to the Building and
Industrial Development Council, the bargaining council that administers the
workers’ pensions. The workers picket at Stock Road train station in
Philippi East every morning. Last Thursday violence erupted when about 100 workers
marched to a work site in the Kraaifontein Scottsdene area. Striking worker Melikhaya Pisana was stabbed to death
allegedly by guards at the site. Workers believe the guards are gangsters hired by the
employer to protect the site. Pisana leaves his wife and two children aged ten
and six. His cousin Sithembiso Ginyigazi told GroundUp that Pisana, who worked
as a plumber, was the only earner in the family. He said that Pisana’s employer
had not visited the family since his death. SAPS spokesperson Frederick van Wyk said at about 10:45
on Thursday the police were informed about the strike. “Protesters came from Eikendal railway station and they
were on their way to the Scottsdene construction site. They stopped at
Kraaifontein SAPS and they were advised not proceed to the construction site.
However, they continued to the Scottsdene construction site,” said Van Wyk. He said the security guards at the construction site in
Scottsdene “allegedly chased the protesters with paintballs, spades and
pangas”. He said that at “about 11:27” on the corner of Botfontein
and Riebeeck roads, “a 36 year old male was found fatally wounded. At this
stage it is not clear as to how the deceased sustained injuries.” Van Wyk said
police were investigating cases of murder and a breach of the Gatherings Act. No arrests had been made. There have been accusations and
counter-accusations between NUM and GHC management. Hired thugs NUM regional organiser Benson Ngqentsu said GHC
management had hired “gangsters” from Manenberg to intimidate union members. He
said that on Thursday gangsters were transported from Manenberg to Kraaifontein
to intimidate striking workers who were picketing peacefully. “Our members were approached by a group of the so-called
security guards who had pangas, knives, petrol bombs. They chased them. The
deceased was stabbed in the back,” said Ngqentsu. But GHC management denies this, saying NUM members have
been intimidating employees who are not part of the strike. GHC director Raziek
Rajah said NUM was giving him too much credit. “Imagine hiring gangsters to look after 14 sites in
different areas. I must be a leader of a big gang that no one knows in the
Western Cape,” he said. He accused NUM of causing R15m damage to property and of
kidnapping 12 workers and locking them in a shack in Philippi. Ngqentsu denies
this. “NUM have posted on social networks that we are hiring
gangsters to look after our sites and I’m taking legal action against them. I
already had a meeting with the provincial government explaining myself. I even
showed the registration number of the security company we hired,” Rajah said. In response to questions about the money owed to the
bargaining council, Rajah described a complicated dispute between the union and
the company about what is owed, but said his company would abide by any
decision the bargaining council takes. He also said he was concerned that the strike has been
turned into a racial issue because only coloured employees are now working. Rajah said that he tried to get the police to stop last
Thursday’s march but, he claims the police said it was not their duty to do so. “Unfortunately a person lost his life and no one knows
what really happened,” he said. Rajah said GHC had asked NUM members to come
back to work. ‘Demands are
simple’ NUM regional co-ordinator in the Western Cape Patrick
Hlengisa told GroundUp that some workers were transported to hospital on
Thursday following the attack in Scottsdene. “Our members’ demands are very simple: They want
protective gear at work and the money that has been deducted from their
salaries for pension funds to be paid to the bargaining council,” he said. Jessica Shelver, spokesperson for the MEC for education,
said the Western Cape Education Department (WCED) was aware of the strike and
workers’ demands. She said the department had heard rumours about the
striking workers’ claims but had seen nothing official. “This is a contractual issue between GHC and the
workers,” she said. She said that Good Hope Construction was not contracted directly
by the WCED, but by the public works department. Hlengisa said NUM would march
to GHC in Parow on Wednesday to reiterate their demands and the march would
continue to the Bargaining Council offices where the strikers would demand that
the council force GHC to pay over the workers’ pension money. On Thursday NUM would march to the Provincial Parliament
to ask Premier Helen Zille to intervene, he said. 24.com encourages commentary submitted via MyNews24. Contributions of 200 words or more will be considered for publication.  