News24 Correspondent(iStock) Multimedia &nbsp; &nbsp; User Galleries &nbsp; &nbsp; News in Pictures Send us your pictures &nbsp; &nbsp; Send us your stories Phalaborwa - A Hazyview hitchhiker was allegedly raped by the three women who gave him a lift in their BMW, the fifth such incident to be reported on in the past few years.Police in Phalaborwa, Limpopo, warned residents not to hitchhike after a man was raped this week, a News24 Correspondent reported.The 31-year-old man from Hazyview told police he was hitchhiking between Phalaborwa and Hoedspruit on Monday when three women in a BMW 320i gave him a lift but then raped him. &nbsp; Phalaborwa police spokesperson Constable Elvis Mongwe said one of the women offered the hitchhiker a soft drink. "Three minutes after drinking it, he had a painful erection." He said the man was then taken to a deserted area where the women took turns raping him at gunpoint. They did not use condoms.&nbsp;Afterwards, they took his cellphone and R300 cash and dropped him off at Eiland near Gravelotte. He made his way to the main road where a passing motorist took him to the police station.Phalaborwa police have opened a rape case but have yet to make any arrests. Mongwe advised people to use public transport and not hitchhike as it puts them at risk of being robbed, raped or even killed.Previous incidentsIn May, a man who was standing on the side of the road in Kwazakhele, Port Elizabeth, was grabbed by three women in a black BMW and raped at gunpoint. He described his &ldquo;shock, disbelief and pain&rdquo; at the incident, News24 reported at the time.In March, The Citizen reported on a similar incident. A hitchhiker was given a lift by three women driving a BMW in Germiston. They demanded that he give them money and when he said he had none, they produced a firearm, blindfolded him, took him to a garage and gang-raped him.In August 2012, The Daily News reported that a man was hitchhiking in Gingindlovu when three women in a Toyota Tazz gave him a lift, held him up with a gun and then each woman - none of whom were wearing underwear - raped him three times after parking at the side of the road. In January 2008,&nbsp;News24&nbsp;reported a 20-year-old man was left traumatised after three women and two men gave him a lift in a Toyota Venture while he was hitchhiking from Alkmaar to Nelspruit in Mpumalanga. At some stage, the driver pulled off the road, the two men pulled out guns and then the three women raped him.24.com encourages commentary submitted via MyNews24. Contributions of 200 words or more will be considered for publication.