Sihle Zide When Luister, the documentary by Stellenbosch University student activist first came out, South African and the world were shocked by the racist allegations made by Black and Coloured students, years after the advent of democracy in our country.  Luister is Afrikaans for Listen. The video chronicled the shocking and disturbing complaints of Blacks and Coloureds, and their treatment at one of most prestigious universities in Africa.  It is ironic that there is still talk of racism in the 21th century meted against Black people, albeit the dominant numbers in Africa. People ask how is it possible that the minority can still harass the majority and get away with it. Many people argue that the mystery is enshrined in the politics or world economy, though we can leave the debate for another day–the main focus is comment on the claims of allegedly racism at the institution with an open mind.  The main question on my mind is if the allegations are true, how did they survived for that long in a democratic and united country.  To wit, the racists are young people, and this shows the failure of our leaders, parents, and society at large to give direction. A failure to sow unity among the leaders of tomorrow, in order for us to walk together with kindness in our hearts, so as to build the proud rainbow nation we all dream about.  As Mandela said: “No human being is born hating another. Hate is inculcated in us.” Children usually adopt and take the lead from adults, who usually follow a set of conditions which shape their world view. We should focus on the background of all these youngsters who are accused of racism at Stellenbosch university. Racism at the institution is just the tip of an iceberg. Parents must teach their children the respect of every human being in the world, instead of ideologies of superiority or inferiority. Our children need the promise of a better future and new dawn 24.com encourages commentary submitted via MyNews24. Contributions of 200 words or more will be considered for publication.  