Nigerian President Muhammadu Buhari (AP) Multimedia    ·   User Galleries   ·   News in Pictures
	        Send us your pictures   ·  Send us your stories Lagos - Nigeria's Senate announced 20 nominees for the
Cabinet of President Muhammadu Buhari on Tuesday, representing all regions of
this West African nation but including only three women in a team expected to
fight endemic corruption. Buhari has said he will hold the most powerful portfolio
of petroleum in Africa's biggest oil producer. Among the candidates is the recently appointed head of
the Nigerian National Petroleum Corp, Harvard-educated Ibe Kachikwu. Kachikwu has 30 years' experience in Nigeria's private
oil sector and is touted to be minister of state running the petroleum ministry
with Buhari's oversight. One of Buhari's first acts was to fire the top echelon of
the state oil industry, from which $20bn allegedly has been looted. There were no surprises on Tuesday's list, which senators
will start vetting next week, said Senate President Bukola Saraki. "He's using those who have track record and
experience in governance. I think that's the best thing for us to do,"
said Senator Robert Boroffice, a member of Buhari's party. The list includes former Lagos State Governor Babatunde
Fashola, known for rehabilitating Lagos, Nigeria's largest city of 20 million,
and making Lagos state financially independent through local tax collection;
humanitarian activist Kayode Fayemi; and former Rivers State Governor Rotimi
Amaechi, the first rebel to defect from ousted President Goodluck Jonathan's
party to lead a group that helped bring Buhari, a northern Muslim, much-needed
votes in the mainly Christian south. Women nominees include UN special adviser Amina Ibrahim
and Kemi Adeosun, a corruption-fighting former state finance commissioner. Buhari did not specify what positions nominees will hold.
His nominations come six months after his election brought Nigeria's first
democratic change of government. Buhari, who was a military dictator 30 years ago, says he
is now a committed democrat determined rid Nigeria of endemic corruption. 24.com encourages commentary submitted via MyNews24. Contributions of 200 words or more will be considered for publication.  