iStock Multimedia    ·   User Galleries   ·   News in Pictures
	        Send us your pictures   ·  Send us your stories Tunis - Human Rights Watch (HRW) on Sunday called for a
thorough and impartial investigation into the death of two Tunisian detainees
in suspicious circumstances in separate cases. "Relatives of both men provided photographs showing
marks and bruises on their faces and bodies, and said that authorities had
failed to inform them promptly about the deaths," the New York-based
rights watchdog said. A Tunis court had launched preliminary inquiries into the
deaths of Sofien Dridi and Qais Berrhouma HRW cited their families' lawyers as
saying. Dridi's family found him dead in a Tunis hospital morgue
on September 18, seven days after police arrested him at the airport following
his deportation from Switzerland, HRW said. A spokesperson for the prison to which Dridi was
transferred four days after his arrest said in a televised interview that he
suffered from diabetes, which caused a fatal heart attack, it said. The National Guard anti-drug brigade arrested the second
man, Berrhouma, on October 5 when witnesses saw plain-clothes men violently
beat him in the street. The next day, his family learned through a relative that
his body was at the same hospital. "The Tunisian authorities should carry out a
thorough and impartial investigation of these deaths," HRW said in a
statement. HRW researcher Amna Guellali said: "The credibility
of Tunisia's judicial system will take a big hit if it can't explain how and why
these two detainees died." The watchdog has documented three other cases of
suspicious deaths in custody: Abdelmajid Ejday in May; Mohamed Ali Snoussi last
year; and Walid Denguir in 2013. The UN special rapporteur on torture, Juan Mendez, last
year labelled Tunisia's efforts to eradicate the practice
"disappointing" in spite of "very encouraging developments"
in other areas of human rights reform.  24.com encourages commentary submitted via MyNews24. Contributions of 200 words or more will be considered for publication.  