Precious Gumede UGU South Coast Tourism (USCT) said there is a definite growth in the film industry in its area. USCT marketing and events specialist, Nikki Tilley said growing the film industry is one of the niche markets they are pursuing, which is firmly entrenched in a five-year marketing plan. Tilley said Tourism appreciates the significant value of film tourism, a sector in the industry, however, when crews are here to shoot they spend money, which also boosts the economy, she said. “In the marketing value of when locations are showcased in films, documentaries, TV commercials and the like, the value of exposure via broadcast and online is unquantifiable and can go a long way in assisting us marketing the region,” said Tilley She said Tourism has already participated in the Durban Film Festival and contributed towards film and television media magazines and online platforms, as a way of beginning to showcase the greater South Coast. “We are going to sustain film, however, that said, as with any competitive market, businesses must stay focussed, and not become greedy. “They also need to educate themselves with regards to film crew expectations and potential impact on business. “This is another role that USCT can play by putting businesses and individuals in touch with the right authorities and experts in the field. It is safe to say that the greater South Coast is still one of the greatest untapped filming destinations in South Africa.” she said. Tilley said that global statistics and the overall economy are positive indicators for the South Coast in terms of growing the industry. Tilley advised film makers of the standard requirements. “Permits are required to film on beaches as well as to film on or under water. Some permits are available through the local municipalities, others require provincial or national permissions,” she said. USCT has been approved in principle by provincial Tourism MEC Mike Mabuyakhulu to have a film office on the South Coast, however, the paper process has not been finalised. USCT has been approved in principle by provincial Tourism MEC Mike Mabuyakhulu to have a film office on the South Coast, however, the paper process has not been finalised 24.com encourages commentary submitted via MyNews24. Contributions of 200 words or more will be considered for publication.  