News24 Correspondent (iStock) 
	        Multimedia    ·   User Galleries   ·   News in Pictures
	        Send us your pictures   ·  Send us your stories
	     Cape Town - The death of a 10-month old baby in Khayelitsha
in July after he ate rat poison, has once again highlighted the need for
caution when using pesticides in the home, the City of Cape Town said in a
statement. The environmental health section investigated the baby's
death, and concluded it was a result of the rat poison.  "It is understood that the child was playing inside his
home when he came into contact with the poison pellets which had been set out
on a side-plate, hidden behind a cupboard," the statement read. Apparently the poison had been put out for rats, but the
residents had forgotten about it. The baby’s caregiver took him to the local
hospital after he started vomiting, but he was declared dead on arrival. 'Heartbreaking' "This is a truly heartbreaking incident and my thoughts
and prayers are with the family," said mayoral committee member for
health, Siyabulela Mamkeli. "It is important that this baby's death not be in vain
and so I appeal to parents to learn from this tragedy and ensure that they do
everything possible to mitigate the risk of their children being exposed to
pesticides. "These incidents are not commonplace, but one death is
one too many," Mamkeli said. During the 2014/15 financial year, city's health department
investigated six pesticide poisoning cases across the city. Environmental
health practitioners also conduct regular inspections of informal traders to
root out the sale of toxic pesticides that are being sold illegally. These poisons often carry no label and thus no information
about the ingredients or manufacturer, placing users, children, pets and the
environment at risk, the statement warned. "I understand that not everyone is able to afford
professional pest control services, but I would also caution against buying
cheap and toxic products that are not correctly packaged or labelled. "There have been instances of children drinking
poisonous chemical substances that have been stored in plastic cooldrink
bottles because they are stored within easy reach. I appeal to residents to buy
only approved and legal pesticides and to use them with care, especially when
they have children or pets in the home," Mamkeli said. He said a free rodent control service to members of poor
communities was available through their local environmental health office or by
leaving a rodent complaint at their nearest municipal clinic. 24.com encourages commentary submitted via MyNews24. Contributions of 200 words or more will be considered for publication.  