Karabo Ngoepe, News24The DA's Solly Msimanga looks at a bottle of alleged dirty water while addressing a crowd in Hammanskraal. (Karabo Ngoepe, News24) Multimedia &nbsp; &nbsp; User Galleries &nbsp; &nbsp; News in Pictures Send us your pictures &nbsp; &nbsp; Send us your stories Pretoria - The Democratic Alliance in Tshwane has accused the government of failing residents of Hammanskraal and making them drink dirty water - but a municipality official says he drinks the water every day.DA mayoral candidate for the 2016 municipal elections, Solly Msimanga, led a group picketing outside the municipal office in Temba on Wednesday. The group handed over a memorandum demanding the water problems in the area be fixed.&ldquo;The water is brown. Foam comes out when the water is boiled,&rdquo; he said.Msimanga said the municipality had told residents the water is clean despite people complaining about being sick.&ldquo;If they say there is no problem with the water, then they must also drink it. Having clean water is not a luxury but a necessity,&rdquo; Msimanga said.Tshegofatso Kutumela, a resident, said they had lodged complaints with municipality but nothing was forthcoming. He said people continued to get sick while government told them the water was fine.Worms in the water&ldquo;The water has bacteria. We have been complaining but we just get told there is nothing wrong with the water. We sometimes get worms in the water. We are forced to boil the water before we can use it because if we don&rsquo;t do that we get sick,&rdquo; he said.The DA's shadow minister for water and sanitation, Nosimo Balindlela, said the water situation was a failure on the part of government.&ldquo;How can government say there is no problem with water when people are getting sick? The government has failed the people. I have written to the South African Human Rights Commission to look into the matter,&rdquo; she said.After handing over their memorandum calling on the city to test the water and to ensure that water infrastructure maintenance was up to date, they challenged an official from the office to drink the water.Godfrey Mguni, who accepted the memorandum, drank the water and said they drank it every day. The city was given 30 days to respond to the demands.Godfrey Mguni signs the memorandum while the DA&rsquo;s Solly Msimanga drinks water. (Karabo Ngoepe, News24) 24.com encourages commentary submitted via MyNews24. Contributions of 200 words or more will be considered for publication.